The market remains dependent on tech.
The capex figure is what you got to be
laser focused on.
>> We're just really not seeing the rest of
the market able to overtake that mag
seven cohort.
>> Tech breath is [music] broadening across
the sector. The technology genie comes
out of the bottle. It never goes back
in.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
Ann Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Wednesday, preparing [music] for a
big one. Fed chair J Pal gearing up for
what could be his last meeting as the
White House reportedly prepares for an
extended [music] blockade of Iran. Four
of the biggest companies on the planet
reporting quarterly earnings. Meta,
[music] Microsoft, Amazon, and Alphabet.
That to me is the most important aspect
of today to understand whether or not
the rally that we've seen so far,
particularly in tech stocks, can
continue despite all of the headwinds
everywhere else. Do we get the results
that justify $650 billion of capex
spending this year? Do we see an
acceleration of that spend into next
year and beyond? And does the market
digest that given the fact that people
are getting a little bit squirly about
some other aspects of the global
economy? This is the story that
supported this equity market and we need
it to keep supporting this equity market
because the other story is putting the
squeeze on things. Crude up once again
potentially higher for what 5 6 7 8
consecutive days for Brent crude up this
morning by 3% 115 and this from the
journal. President Trump instructing
Gates to prepare for extended blockade
of Iran according to US officials.
>> Blockade until they cave. That is really
the tone right now from the White House.
And you go on to read the remainding of
that report. What the Wall Street
Journal is saying is that Trump assessed
that his other options, resume bombing
or walk away from the conflict, carried
more risk than maintaining the blockade.
So they're not escalating, but they're
not deescalating. And right now when you
have that blockade and Kepler's talking
about 12 to 22 days, that's when we
could potentially see some shutins. And
there are reports that the economy right
now is struggling when it comes to Iran.
>> You can see this rippling through asset
classes. So let's go through them. Start
with crude. $4 away from the closing
high on Brent at the front end of the
futures curve. That's crude. That's
commodities. Check out bonds retesting
the highs of the year for the long bond.
We're right there on 30s. And then
equities. Equities on its own planet
already up from the lows and nowhere
near to retesting them. Higher by more
than 10% from the late March low. There
is one little sign that maybe things are
not as complacent under the surface and
that's the equal weight S&P 500 that
isn't making those new highs and you are
seeing it sag to some of the lowest
levels that it's been. So you start
seeing that versus big tech and you can
see this is a completely techdriven
story. This is not some sort of
macroeconomic call and the US economy
accelerating although it is if you take
a look at some of the earnings which is
also what's been propping up some of
these equities. This is a difficult
moment. The earnings have to come
through or else that really does take
the one pillar out of the market that's
holding everything up.
>> The equal weight S&P 500 down for six
consecutive days, the longest losing
streak so far this year. Coming up this
hour, we'll catch up with George Canvas
of MUFG as the president considers an
extended blockade. Angela Zeno joins us
of CF with big tech earnings on deck and
Priisra of JP Morgan looking ahead to
the Federal Reserve. We begin this out
with stocks holding steady ahead of a
critical day for Wall Street. George
Canarvis of MUFG writing, "It's one
thing to climb the wall of worry. It's
yet another to be in denial of the
reality still to come. We think broader
financial markets have overshot again
and are at risk of serious
disappointment." George joins us now for
more. George, good morning.
>> Good morning. Good morning.
>> That's a bearish way to start this
morning, sir.
>> It's a bearish way to start. You know,
it's potentially Pal's last Fed day and
we'll see if he can change that kind of
bearishness into some sort of optimism
here, but um I think it's the right
call.
>> What do you think we're going to be
disappointed by? I think we're going to
be disappointed by a number of things.
One, if you go back in the analoges of
history and if you look at again, people
don't like to go back to two two
distinct periods, 2008 and 2000, people
just don't like those two years. And you
can have good news and you can have
markets end at a high note and then kind
of top tick things. And so earnings
really do have to deliver today. And you
have a lot of optimism already priced
in. You have valuations again back to
screaming high levels. It's all about
the equity market. It's all about the
tech sector within the equity market.
And I could one could argue that that
makes the economy much more fragile.
Each time we do this, we are so
dependent on stocks never going down.
>> Paul Shuda Jones, legendary investor,
speaking to Patrick Oonessy in a podcast
and saying this, 2000 was the easiest
bare market I've ever seen in my whole
life, went on to say it's got so many
similarities to right now. What are the
similarities to right now?
>> The similarities are a concentrated kind
of view, the euphoria around a new like
a new technology like AI. Um again you
know the the sort of kind of um
liquidity that created you know meme
stock like investing all of this is kind
of very similar. We use different ways
of expressing what was happening back
then but it was bubble-like conditions
and there's I think a repeat of that
happening now.
>> You said something that I find really
interesting which is that this market
going up is one of the big reasons why
people keep being bullish. It's almost
like a Ponzi scheme of bullishness,
right? the market goes up so you feel
bullish so you put your money in the
market and it goes up. How big of a
pillar is that to the overall recovery
to the resilience in the US economic
data to really underpin the
justification to keep going into stocks
that make them keep going up that then
keep propping up economic conditions?
>> Yeah, it is kind of a vicious kind of
cycle up the question. We haven't really
felt the vicious cycle on the way down
largely because there's really no net
sellers or real sellers and and most
large investors have to be fully
invested to kind of participate with the
upside and when they do try to hedge
they use the options market which then
creates these sort of squeezes on on
gamma on options like so it creates this
weird dynamic that's kind of perpetual
until one day it's not we haven't felt
that yet.
>> I guess the biggest counterpoint to that
is potentially we've seen every single
potential uh puncture point to that. I
mean, well, you name you name it. High
oil prices, high uh high bond prices,
uncertainty at the Federal Reserve, uh
political uncertainty, hot wars. I mean,
uh all sorts of concerns. Why hasn't any
of that been enough?
>> I mean, look, they think the market
structure has clearly changed. I mean,
there's been well documented the passive
flow. That's why I've always looked at
the jobs market as the most critical
component. People have jobs, they
contribute to their 401ks. It keeps the
the system going, right? I I think
that's where why it's so critical that
we're at this interesting inflection
point potentially that if AI is really
that good it's going to hurt the jobs
market over time at least in the short
term I think it will medium short to
medium term and as you retool the
economy around that you might lose like
AI is not going to be contributing to
401ks you know they're going to be
replacing and you know like you start
like doing windfall taxes at like
corporations you like this is a really
interesting crossroads and and maybe
just the totality of all these things
will start to be like a burden on the
economy at some point it's that last
straw that breaks the camel's back.
>> Aren't we already doing some of that
when the president comes out and says
tech companies need to basically
subsidize consumers energy bills?
>> Uh, look, I mean, I think there's um
there's going to be a need for kind of
cost sharing, load sharing for sure in
the future.
>> And you think that's going to be more of
a burden on corporate America to pick
that up?
>> Look, ultimately, uh, you know, how this
all shapes out, I really don't know. No
one knows the future on how this works
out. It's going to depend on future
administrations more so than anything
else. But I I feel pretty confident both
in this election cycle and in 2028 AI is
going to be on the ballot box.
>> What do you think it is this year before
we get to 28 that shakes this market out
of what you believe is denial?
>> I mean I think look I mean the front and
center is the oil price and I think just
the fact that we've been into denial the
the biggest denial is that somehow we
can like turn on and get production back
that we can kind of replace all this
inventory that's been depleted. And as
we're going through that process, I
think it's going to really be a kind of
rude awakening for markets that it's
going to be a drag on growth in the
second half.
>> We speak to Stuart Kaiser of City. This
is something he's been talking about
coming into this week that these
slowmoving risks just keep on building,
keep on building, keep on building, and
then you break, you reach a tipping
point. I have no idea if we're close to
one of those, but some people think we
are.
>> And what people are watching is that
longdated oil contract and the fact that
it's reaching almost $90 on Brent crude
for December. People are watching that
and saying, "Hold on." It's going to
cross some bogey where suddenly the
stock market's going to wake up and say,
"We're broken. We don't think we like
this very much." And right now, you
aren't seeing that. And part of it is
because the earnings keep giving that
forward look that is more positive. And
at what point do you start to have to
see some of this reflected in some of
the rhetoric coming from the sea suite?
>> George, are yields higher now for
different reasons or the same reasons we
made those highs just a month or so ago?
I think yields are higher for a number
of different reasons and they've not
participated in the broader risk rally
because it is a pure macro kind of
expression and so it it is capturing you
know a longer kind of wait and see mode
for central banks not just in the US
because like the hawkish rhetoric that's
been coming out from overseas is also
kind of pushed up US rates the global
kind of rate connection is there and and
it's clearly an issue for the US bond
market and you know fiscal concerns
because I mean we all know at some point
something does break the the
government's going to come to the
rescue. So I think there's a lot of
different like factors that are kind of
at play.
>> But to John's point earlier uh in the
conflict people were looking at higher
yields as a result of rate hikes in
direct response to oil prices which was
absolutely a negative.
>> Now suddenly it's because the economy is
doing just fine the consumer can keep
spending. It's almost like yields are
rising for the right reason. At what
point even if they're rising for the
right reasons does it become a breaking
point for equity valuations? I think
markets, you know, get enamored around
clear lines in the sand. 5% on the
30-year, if that breaks, you get above
450 on the 10-year. And if you were to
ever go back to 4% on the 2-year
Treasury, then the market, I think the
broader markets like stocks would
actually m care.
>> What business does the 2-year have at
4%. So, we asked that question
repeatedly back in March. I think we
have to ask it once again at 385. What
business does the 2-year have at 4%.
When we, as far as we understand, the
bar to hike at the Federal Reserve is
incredibly high. What business does a
2-year yield have trading above Fed
funds? I
>> I really think has very little business.
So, we're actually relatively
constructive of the front end. We think
that's the best sweet spot, highest
riskreward for the bond market is being
long positive carry treasuries in the
front end. So right now looking forward,
what's the best hedge to something
potentially breaking although it hasn't
yet and could potentially keep going?
>> So unfortunately it's been the trade
that's been the hardest to kind of keep
in place which has been the curve
steepener, you know, and and and that's
the the best macro expression that has
to get reset every so often because it
doesn't doesn't deliver until it does.
>> George, it's good to see you. Thanks for
breaking it down. A bearish start to
this Wednesday morning going into a
massive slate of earnings after the
closing bell and the Federal Reserve
decision later this afternoon. 30s at
495, 10S at 436. With an update on
stories worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief, Vonyie Quinn has more.
Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John, [music] thank you. President
Trump telling his staff to prepare for
an extended US naval blockade of the
Straight of Hormuz. [music] The Wall
Street Journal reporting the president
has decided the blockade is a less risky
option than resuming bombing or
extracting the US from the conflict
entirely.
The White House is working on dialing
down its feud with AI giant Anthropic.
[music] Axios reporting the US is
developing new guidance that would allow
agencies to get around [music] anthropic
supply chain risk status and begin
onboarding its new model, Mythos. A
draft of an executive action is
reportedly [music] in the works.
UBS posting first quarter earnings that
beat analyst [music] estimates. The
investment bank increasing revenue by
almost 30% with equities and FX
delivering the biggest boost. UBS is
giving cautious signals of [music]
increasing the $3 billion buyback is
already lined up amid ongoing tension
over Swiss regulation. [music]
And that is your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. More from Vonyie
later this hour. Up next on the program,
standing firm against [music] Iran.
>> We're doing a little Middle East work
right now. We have militarily defeated
that particular opponent and we're never
going to let that opponent ever. We're
never going to let that opponent have a
nuclear weapon. Up next, we'll catch up
with Colonel Wayne Sanders of Bloomberg
[music]
Intelligence live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
Check out this day ahead. Just look at
it. 2:00 p.m. Eastern time, Federal
Reserve decision, 2:30 news conference.
After the closing bound, Microsoft,
Amazon, Meta, Alphabet, just phenomenal.
The earning slate later on this
afternoon and this morning, the small
matter of a vote to look to push forward
the confirmation of Kevin Walsh for the
top of the Federal Reserve. Finally, the
Senate Banking Committee will have that
vote. Senator Tillis is going to vote
yes, so it's going to get out of the
committee. Not only that, he might pick
up two Democratic votes in that
committee, which would be a pretty big
deal for Kevin Worsh. I'd like to make a
proposal. I think they should spread
this out. I don't think that this is
good casting. I think that they really
need to uh, you know, a little bit every
single day so we can adequately focus on
it all because this is just a bit too
much.
>> You're trying to produce.
>> That's a day ahead. I think I think we
need to produce this this particular
news.
>> It's a day ahead that gets you out of
bed. That's what it is.
>> It's my favorite week. If you love
financial markets, this is the week for
you without a doubt.
>> That's right. So, spread the joy, you
know, make it a little bit so you can
really make it your favorite month,
>> some drip feed of like Exactly. Tech
earnings on Thursday and Friday, too.
>> Yeah. I think that's all I'm saying. I'm
not saying to take away from the week.
I'm saying to build, you know, you need
the drama, the crescendo. But how good
is it to have a Kevin Worsh Senate
Banking Committee vote right before we
hear from Jay Powell?
>> It's perfect scheduling. You happy with
that schedule?
>> That's good.
>> Okay.
>> Well done, Washington. All right.
Washington [laughter] delivered for once
a seat. Equity futures right now in the
S&P 500 just about unchanged on the
Nasdaq elevated bouncing back by 0.3%.
Notable the moves elsewhere particularly
in crude in commodities and in the bond
market too. Check out crude looking at
another day of gains for Brent. Brent
crude up once again by what are we up
by? 3% this morning. Eight days of gains
for Brent crude up 3% to about 115 and
just short of the closing high since
this war started. That closing high had
a 118 handle. You know, this is really
the Stuart Kaiser point that we keep
going back to. What's the tipping point
here when markets wake up and say this
is no longer something that's temporary?
It isn't temporary when it's two months,
three months, and we potentially have no
end to it. And when you don't have a
sense of how quickly some of these
barrels can get back uh into the market,
>> folding that moving crude into the bond
market, too, Bremo, just starting to see
yields drift higher once again. It's a
stealthy sell-off with 30s back to 495,
10s at about 436, and yields up again at
the front end of the curve by two to
386.
>> There's some discussion about the
Federal Reserve this afternoon signaling
that they aren't necessarily interested
in multiple rate cuts going forward that
maybe they will adjust policy downward.
There's also a push to potentially put
in that symmetric risk of potentially a
rate hike. How much will that matter to
markets? Will it make people feel like
maybe the two-year has business doing
somewhere for around 4% or does it sort
of get dismissed as well? It's just Fed
chair J. Pal trying to leave us last
mark
>> trying to anchor inflation expectations.
>> There's just a sense that even if they
have that more symmetrical bias, you
drop the easing bias that no one's
really going to believe it.
>> Are they really going to hike interest
rates? One bank thinks they might BMP
Parabar James Ego making the case that
maybe the next move is a hike
potentially not the base case but at
least exploring the potential for that
later this year. I would like to see the
conversations between President Trump
and Kevin Walsh if that were to happen.
I think that that would be interesting.
Let's see.
>> Let's talk about the commodity market
under Savannah this morning. Standing
firm against Iran.
>> We're doing a little Middle East work
right now, too, if you might know. And
we're doing very well. We have
militarily defeated that particular
opponent. And we're never going to let
that opponent ever. We're never going to
let that opponent have a nuclear weapon.
They know that. And they've known it
right now very powerfully. Here's the
latest this morning. President Trump
reportedly telling aids to prepare for
an extended blockade of Iran to force
the country back to the negotiating
table. Some great reporting once again
from the Wall Street Journal. Bloomber's
Tyler Kendall joins us now from
Washington for more. Good morning,
Tyler.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Well, as talks
remain stalled, we've actually already
heard from President Trump today with a
4 a.m. Eastern Post saying that Iran
quote better get smart soon. that seems
to be adding to the sense that the US
isn't too interested in the off-ramp
that Iran presented that could see a
reopening of the Straight of Hermuz in
exchange for the US lifting its naval
blockade. But that proposal would delay
or postpone any dialogue around Iran's
nuclear program, something that this
White House maintains just is not
acceptable. And that's led the Wall
Street Journal to report that in recent
meetings, President Trump has opted
towards uh keep squeezing Iran's economy
and oil exports by keeping this blockade
in place, deeming it less risky than say
resuming fighting or leaving without any
potential deal. And the proof is already
there that this is the course of action
that the US is sticking to as SenCom
yesterday confirmed that it had boarded
another commercial vessel in the Arabian
Sea under suspicion that it was headed
towards Iranian ports. And we saw this
doubling down by the US Treasury
Secretary Scott Bessant in a post on X
yesterday saying that the US will
continue its quote maximum pressure
campaign when it comes to the Iranian
economy and that he claims that Carg
Island storage capacity is nearing its
highest level. Now, John, in addition to
this, we also saw Besson's Treasury
Department yesterday issue a warning to
financial institutions against
facilitating transactions with Chinese
oil refiners with ties to Iran as
Beijing still remains that number one
consumer of blacklisted Iranian crude.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest from the
nation's capital. Tala, thank you. For
market participants out there reading
that story from the journal, I'm sure it
went something like this. Extend the
blockade. An extended blockade. What was
this? Haven't we already had one for the
last two months?
>> Well, exactly. What do we mean when we
talk about extended? It's extended
beyond what? One month, more month, two
more months. And that difference is
actually really important.
>> Joining us now to discuss is Colonel
Wayne Sanders, senior defense research
analyst at Bloomberg Intelligence.
Colonel, welcome back to the program.
Just working through the journal piece.
Tyler went through some of this. There
seems to be three options on the
president's desk. Maintain a blockade,
resume the bombing, or walk away. Do you
see one choice is more likely than the
other at this point?
Yeah, I think that extending the
blockade right now is definitely the
best option that uh President Trump has
because the blockade is working. It's
providing the pressure that you're
already looking for. The bombing
campaign did a great job of destroying a
lot of the the military infrastructure
across Iran, but at this point in time,
Iran has already proven from uh they're
not exactly worried about the Iranian
people and some additional military
strikes, I don't think, is really going
to gain uh the US anything. It actually
makes the US look more like an aggressor
uh on that if we were to continue to do
that without being provoked by Iran.
Iran since April 13th has pretty much
stopped uh their drone strikes as well
as their missile strikes and has really
focused all their effort into the
straits. So I think at this point in
time when you look at the leverage of
national power right you have diplomatic
information military and economic uh at
this point in time I think the economic
lever right now in the straight of
Hormuz is probably the biggest one that
President Trump's using. Well, and
they're doubling down at Treasury at
least. They're talking about how putting
out a statement to financial individuals
to not participate in the poll uh the
toll, excuse me. And then on top of
that, when it comes to OFAC, they're
basically making it a lot harder for
those Chinese teapot refineries to
accept Iranian crude. Do you see any
evidence that this is actually moving
Iranians on the ground in the regime to
want to come to the table when it comes
to the peace talks?
Uh the only reason I would say that it
does is because they have not moved on
back to military operations. I think if
uh if they were at that point in time
not worried uh about it then they would
just go back to hitting the strikes. But
I think the fact that right now Iran is
still staying low on the strikes and is
focused more on this. They're still
doing it in the shadows. They're still
moving around in the background trying
to find a way around this. Uh they
they've looked at trying to uh figure
ship to ship uh you know in terms of
moving some of the oil around and all
that. But the blockade is in place.
USNCOM has already reported, you know,
34 to 37 ships have been turned around
at this point in time. And the fact that
the US naval blockade is still actually
boarding and interdicting some of these
ships as well shows at that point in
time to Iran that, hey, look, we're not
going away. And I think President
Trump's uh message to, you know,
continue to extend that blockade is is
very poignant and is the reason why he
did it.
>> So, how long do you think the blockade
will actually be extended? Are we
talking weeks or months?
Well, I I think at this point in time
they're they're just waiting for Iran to
break. Uh I I think at this point in
time, you know, USCOM and Fifth Fleet
have the ability to keep this uh this
blockade in place. Military seal lift
command uh Rear Admiral Nicholson had
brought up a few days ago that, you
know, they they've figured it out now in
terms of being able to provide the
supply chains all the way uh for all
three of these aircraft carriers uh in
the carrier strike groups that are
there. It's actually allowing them uh
the opportunity to figure out how to
supply the suppliers. Uh he went through
a whole big diet trap on that which was
great. Uh being able to show that hey we
have the method means necessary to be
able to provide beans, bullets, fuel and
everything that is necessary to continue
that blockade.
>> Colonel, it seems like the US is being
pretty clear about what they're doing as
this blockade does go on. There's also
discussion about how the military assets
are positioned in the region. What's
Iran doing with this time that does seem
to be a ceasefire? Are they building up
their drone capacity? Are they building
back up or accelerating production of
nuclear weapons?
>> I I think at this point in time the
biggest thing that Iran is doing is they
are trying to position themselves in
case it goes back to a military strike
uh type of war conflict that we had uh
you know prior to the ceasefire being in
place. So it's a lot of it is going to
be positioning those weapon systems.
It's going to be trying to move the
launchers around. They have to do it
stealthily obviously because of uh
intelligence surveillance and
reconnaissance capacity the United
States. So they're doing a lot of that
the production capacity if they have any
of these additional production
facilities to build the Shahed 136
drones which have been very effective uh
in the against the Gulf States
especially then they will continue to do
that but uh one of the biggest targets
of this has been their drone production
facilities. So I think at this point in
time it's the drones that they currently
have. Are they positioned in the right
place to be able to provide a strike? Uh
the IRGC fast boats continue to be a
piece uh to maneuver them around the
streets of Hormuz in case there was
going to be uh military escorts of
additional vessels and they needed to be
able to create a strike. They're doing
the same thing that the US is doing and
that is positioning themselves in the
best way. They're doing something in
wargaming that's called re uh it's
action reaction sorry excuse me action
reaction and counteraction. So they're
putting all their things in the ground
and saying if the US does this we need
to be prepared to do this and then the
US is doing the same thing.
>> Colonel you're one of the best and we
appreciate your time. Thank you sir.
Colonel Wayne Sanders there of Bloomberg
Intelligence. We got a pretty healthy
dose of hopeium yesterday morning with
two notes. One from the president
another from CNN. The president saying
Iran had informed us that they are in a
state of collapse and they want us to
open the straight former as soon as
possible as they try to figure out their
leadership situation. And CNN said Iran
is expected to submit a revised peace
proposal. What was notable about that is
not whether I believe any of that is
likely or not. It's how the market
responded to it or rather did not
respond to it. That did not bring down
crude over a sustained period of time
throughout yesterday's session.
>> It barely registered in terms of the
main stories that the market was looking
at. They were watching the uh discussion
around open AI. People have moved on
because it's sort of, you know, again,
fool me once, shame on you, fool me
twice, shame on me. People are getting
ignored to headline roulette that
doesn't pan out to anything.
>> Crew just grinding higher and once again
this morning high by close to 3% close
to 115 on Brent. Up next we'll talk
about tech. [music] Angelo Zeno of CFR
with Max 7 earnings on deck. Plus your
hieras got your morning movers.
Starbucks rising [music] on better than
expected results. That stock is up by
close to 5% in the pre-market. Live from
New York City. [music] You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
Stocks bouncing back by 0.1% on the S&P
500 following the biggest one day
decline in about a week. No real drama
there at the S&P 500 at the headline
index level. Away from that though, the
equal weight as noted by Brammo a little
bit earlier on this morning. Six days of
losses for the equal weight, the longest
since November. So there is a bit of
tension out there in the equity market
if you look for it on the NASDAQ this
morning up 0.4% 4% going into a stellar
slate of earnings later on this
afternoon after the closing bell. When
it turns to crude, eight days of gains
for Brent over that period, higher by
27%,
the longest daily winning streak going
back to May 2022 and just short of the
high of the year, just short by some
four bucks this morning.
>> And this raises two questions. Number
one, why is the US shrugging it off? And
number two, how much is this really
going to pressure Europe at a
disproportionate pace? This is really
going to be the tale of the halves and
the have nots among companies. The have
and the have nots with industries and
with regions. And that seems to be
what's happening under the surface.
>> Goldman came out with a new forecast and
we made a big deal of it. 90 on average
for the fourth quarter. Sounds terrible.
Then you get into the numbers. Look at
the contract table for Brent crude this
morning. October 92, November at 90,
December at 88. That's an average of 90.
Market's already there.
>> And this is why people are saying,
"Where's the tipping point?" If we're
already there at some of these places,
at what point will the market wake up to
that? What you're seeing is a lot of
diversification and ultimately people
depending on the capex spending from big
tech to support and offset any of the
potential dampening from higher oil
prices. Also, the momentum that we've
seen in the US economy really keeps
surprising. And the blockade is
continuing and based off this reporting
from the Wall Street Journal, it is not
ending. The president doesn't want to
escalate, but doesn't want to
deescalate. He's not willing to take a
bad deal. So, that means the blockade
stays. And if you look at some of the
imagery that's going on, we're seeing
30-year-old tankers that have been off
the radar for years, showing up next to
Car Island because the Iranians are
trying to find any levers they can to
start storing some of this crude.
>> Yields just creeping higher alongside
that moving crude is notable retesting
the highs of the year on 30s. Very close
on the long bond at 495, 494 this
morning. Up at the front end as well
going into the Feds meeting this
afternoon. up a single basis point,
round it up to 2, 385. Yields are higher
now this morning than they were when the
Fed last met at the close of business
that day. I think that's interesting
that yields have carried on creeping
higher over that period
>> and it's independent of any Fed action.
This isn't necessarily some kind of
commentary on Fed discussion. That said,
the probability of a cut by December has
gone down to 24%. Uh that was 35% on
Monday. So, it's rapidly going down as
people take a look at the balance of
risks and some of the rhetoric coming
out of administration officials.
>> Two at 385. Let's get you some single
names, some morning movers. Massive day
ahead for Wall Street. Yhara has more.
Hey, Yhara.
>> Hi, John. We start with Starbucks.
Shares are rising nearly 5% in the
pre-market as the US consumer shows up
in force, helping the coffee chain beat
expectations and boost its outlook even
as China remains a weak spot. But CEO
Brian Nichols saying overall customers
are visiting their revamped stores more
and when they're there they are spending
more on their drinks. Turning to the
data storage company Seagate shares are
soaring nearly 18% in the pre-market on
what the street is calling blowout
results. The company beat on earnings
and issued an outlook way ahead of
expectations. All having to do with AI
driving enormous need uh for data
storage and that is helping the company
on both pricing and margins. And we end
on Booking Holdings issuing a warning
that the Middle East conflict is
starting to weigh on travel demand. So
shares are falling 5% in the pre-market.
its revenue guidance coming in well
below expectations because the company
says uh people uh fewer travelers are
booking trips and more cancellations.
John,
>> it's one to watch. Yhara, thank you.
Appreciate the update. More from Yihara
throughout this morning. On our radar
this morning, President Donald Trump
telling prepare for a prolonged naval
blockade of the straight of Hormuz. The
Wall Street Journal reporting the
president thinks the blockade carries
less of a risk for the US than resuming
hostilities. Elsewhere, King Chance
addressing a joint session of Congress,
urging the US to maintain its leadership
role in the world and in NATO.
>> I pray with all my heart
that our alliance will continue to
defend our shared values with our
partners in Europe and the Commonwealth
and across the world and that we ignore
the Clarion calls to become ever more
inwardlooking. At last night's state
dinner, President Trump saying the king
chairs his position on preventing Iran
from obtaining a new weapon. And
finally, UPS reporting first quarter
earnings that topped estimates and
signaled bigger buybacks this year.
Santanderez net income also beating and
Deutsche Bank reporting a record profit
despite higher provisions for credit
losses. That's the Rafa European Bank
earnings this morning. Yeah, you did see
uh some good earnings from UBS and
possibly momentum despite the fact that
the currency uh did seem to be dragging
on a currency adjusted basis with the
dollar. Deutsch Bank was interesting.
The credit provisions were for loan
losses tied to commercial uh mortgage
properties in the United States,
particularly on the West Coast, and you
start to see some of this come out and
it's just a marktomarket that is bigger
than expected in terms of the loss.
These are the things I'm interested in.
Where are people gaming out the weak
spots that could potentially be problem
areas going forward should the economy
turn more significantly?
>> Guy Johnson sat down with Sergio Monty
in a fantastic interview and he was
talking about how investors might be
overconfident about what is going to be
the outcome and the scarring basically
from the Iran war saying that the
expectations not only that things are
going to be resolved which he believes
and hopes but the impact of what
happened will be resolved in a classical
way. basically saying we've gotten so
used to basically things just going back
to normal and he's not quite sure things
are just going to go back to normal
after this
>> love guy love guy's work guy's the best
one of the best anyway Donald Fendel the
other people
>> yeah he was really pushing back on
Romani in this interview it was a good
interview
>> check it out with Sergio Marti and Guy
Johnson on blimbo.com and on the Blimbo
terminal elsewhere earnings from four of
the mag 7 due out after the closing bow
Angelo Zeno of CFR with a strong buy
rating on Microsoft and Meta and a buy
on Alphabet writing companies have the
ability ility to demonstrate faster than
anticipated growth. Hyperscalers are
likely to sustain, not increase, capex
budgets. Angela joins us now for more.
Angela, that last line's interesting.
Are we entering a new phase for capex?
>> Yeah, so John, I don't know if we're
entering a new phase, but I will say
this. You know, we we just saw these
companies really kind of blow out their
capex numbers um back in when they
reported Q4 results. So, that was just
two months ago, right? And um when you
kind of think look look ahead just two
months later I don't think much has
changed. You look at where the street is
at in terms of the capex numbers
relative to where the guidance was. I
think most um you know sellside analysts
are towards the high end of kind of the
the range that was provided from a lot
of these hyperscalers. So when you just
kind of look at you know what these
companies are at least going to do in Q1
I don't see any sort of major tick up in
terms of capex budgets. That could
change as we go into the second half of
this year and depending on what that
trajectory looks like. Uh but at least
as far as Q1 is concerned, I wouldn't
expect any sort of uh major change to
capex budgets.
>> Angela, we're all tracking that story
from the Wall Street Journal this week
indicating that OpenAI was starting to
struggle to meet its own sales targets.
It raises some questions about their own
spending commitments over the next year
or so into 2030. How do you think the
other big spenders would respond to a
development like that one?
Yeah, I mean I thought that was an
interesting article to be honest with
you that you know there I thought there
were a couple interesting takeaways but
it was very vague in nature but when I
when I think about the just open AI I
think you know that was somewhat the
writing was somewhat in the writing was
on the wall to an extent here over the
last couple of weeks and months just
given some some of the news flow that we
had seen but um you know they had
already rooed their capex budget from
1.3 trillion to uh 600 billion in terms
of commitments. Um 600 billion still
seems too high, but at the end of the
day, I mean, listen, as long as the AI
narrative remains intact. You continue
to see strong adoption from the
enterprise space. We'll see actually I
think bookings uh growth in terms of the
the cloud guys reporting tonight is
going to be really important and what
that nonAI uh open AI contribution looks
like, especially for a company like
Microsoft which hinted towards 45% of
open AI exposure last quarter. um we
kind of want to see what that non-open
AI uh growth looks like and but I and I
think it's going to be really strong and
I think these companies are going to be
able to diversify away from open AI over
the next couple of quarters. So I think
that's a positive. Um but as far as open
AI risk, you know, inherently there um
there's clearly going to be risk if they
can't deliver and accelerate here
especially in in you know ahead of a a
monster IPO later this year. Angela, you
touched on something really interesting
here, which is the rest of their
business other than just the AI specific
aspects. How important is that going to
be? Right? I mean, are we overly focused
on the AI aspect and are we really going
to see more of a gut check on some of
their core businesses? For Meta, it'll
be the advertising and more cyclical
aspects. For Amazon, it does sell
clothes and things that you'd use to
clean your home. Uh, and and the others,
just the wars over cloud computing.
>> Yeah, I mean, it's going to be key,
right? the core businesses and and
really the the two you know big most
important trends is cloud growth and it
isn't all AI and then you know to your
point the digital ad market and the
digital ad market is going to be
interesting to kind of see what you know
Meta and Alphabet say I mean you would
expect the digital ad market to continue
to be relatively healthy but I think
there are going to be pockets of
weakness in areas like travel and what
have you because of the war that's going
on or the you know the Middle East
conflict at this point in time so the
guidance will be um interesting but as
far as kind of the the main driver here
it will continue to be um AI you look at
you know Meta's expected growth here
this quarter 31% Q2 expectation of about
25% the digital ad market was only
growing you know about 10 11% so um
these you know a company like Meta well
outpacing the industry largely because
of that AI contribution and what they're
delivering um from an AI perspective to
you know the the ad community
>> last earning season a lot of these big
tech players were punished for excel
accelerating their capex plans. You
don't think we're going to see a repeat
of that. There'll be more subdued capex
spending plans if you call $650 billion
for these four subdued. I'm just
wondering how the market's going to take
that. Is that going to be a positive or
is that going to be something viewed as
maybe a lack of confidence or less
confidence in the path ahead for AI?
>> Yeah, I mean, listen, I think as far as
as long as they sustain the capex spend,
that's going to be what's going to be
critical. I think everyone kind of
realizes, hey, listen, these guys
really, you know, went out and and and
just really ratcheted up the the capex
spend probably um more so than most had
wanted them to do, you know, two to
three months ago. And I think that was a
big reason you saw um you know, some
uncertainty on the tech side of things
earlier this year. I think that at this
point in time, the street has kind of
digested that. At this point in time,
it's all about whether or not, you know,
you get the return on invested capital,
whether or not you kind of get that
accelerating growth and and strong um,
you know, bookings as we progress
through the year. And that's really, I
think, what the street is concentrated
at this point in time. Um, I think
Microsoft will be a little bit
interesting because they did report
before both Alphabet and Amazon reported
uh the last earning season. And we all
know that those two companies really,
you know, went went nuts in terms of the
capex spend. So I do expect Microsoft to
to potentially, you know, ratchet up the
the commentary in terms of the capex
spend this quarter. Um, but again, I
think that's somewhat discounted in the
shares. You look at it trading about 21
times next year. Um, the concerns on the
SAS apocalypse and what have you. So I
think a lot of those concerns are baked
into the stock.
>> Angel, you mentioned the monster IPO
that we're expecting for OpenAI, but are
you concerned that it's been put on ice
for this year?
um not yet. I mean I think there's um
growing concerns of that obviously um
and you know we'll see how how the year
progresses. I mean when you see some of
the comments you know in the journal and
and what um you know their C CFO Sarah
Fry S Frier has had alluded to. I mean
yeah I mean I think there's some concern
about that. Again we'll see how the year
progresses. Um they did just do a
massive um raise in terms of the 122
billion. So, um, even if the the IPO
gets delayed into 2027, I don't
necessarily think it's going to have
massive implications in terms of how
they plan to, um, spend. But, yeah, I
mean, I I think the bigger risk is, um,
they need to see the growth accelerate
as the year progresses. They need to be
on the right track because if they don't
do that, um, I don't know how you
possibly IPO, let's call it, in Q4, um,
and risk, you know, that throwing that
narrative out there to the street.
>> Things change a lot in this sector and
pretty quickly. I remember this time
last year, Alphabet was dead and look at
that turnaround. Angelo, thank you, sir.
Angela Zena there of CF. I'm pleased you
mentioned the more cyclical parts of
these companies, the likes of Meta, the
ad business. That's something to watch
for later, the cyclally exposed tech
stories and how things are stacking up
given the war, given the increase on
price pressure that we've seen as well
around the world.
>> Yeah, the regions that are pushing off
some of their spending plans because
ultimately they've got other goals right
now. Also supply chain disruption. So
you've got on one hand the cyclical
aspects. On the other hand, are they
having to pay that much more for chips
and for other aspects to build out their
data centers because of some of these
supply chain fissures? These are all
important aspects. It's one thing if you
increase your capex plans, it's another
that you're doing so because
inflationary costs are making it so
expensive that you got no other choice.
Are those the same?
>> NASDAQ futures this morning positive by
0.3%. A small bounce. Let's get you an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Vonnie Quinn has more.
Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. Adidas shares
rising in German trading. The company
reporting first quarter results that
beat estimates. Adada seeing momentum in
its apparel division and healthy demand
for its football, running, and training
products.
Elon Musk taking the stand in his case
against Open AI. Musk is suing Sam
Oldman's company because he says it's
its pivot from a charity to a for-profit
business is wrong. An attorney for
OpenAI says Musk's lawsuit is an attempt
to undermine a competitor to his own
company, XAI.
Former FBI director James Comey indicted
for a second time by the Trump
administration. This time he's charged
with threatening the president's life.
Comey's lawyer says he vigorously deies
the charges and will contest them in
court. And that is your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Vonyie, thank you. More from Vonyie in
30 minutes time. Up next on the program,
calling for patience at the Fed. The Fed
has opened the door, opened the [music]
conversation to not only holding policy
steady, but potentially rate uh hikes,
but the bar is extremely high. So, more
than anything, Paul is going [music] to
reiterate the need for patience.
>> Up next, the brilliant Premisra of JP
Morgan from New York City. This is
Bloomberg surveillance.
Massive day ahead of us going into it.
The scores look like this. Equity
futures up by 0.1%. Let's round it up a
few ten of 1% higher on the NASDAQ and
on the Russell this morning. In the bond
market, yields creeping higher going
into the Federal Reserve decision later
at the front end of the curve. Twos up
two to 385. Under Sylvanas this morning
calling for patience at the Fed.
>> What we're going to hear from Powell is
uncertainty not only because of the
international conflict but the aged
nature of the recovery where we are on
this pathway. The Fed has opened to the
door, opened the conversation to not
only holding policy steady, but
potentially rate uh hikes. But the bar
is extremely high. So more than
anything, Paul is going to reiterate the
need for patience to understand the
evolution of the data and continue to
remain in this steady pace of policy for
now.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Investors looking for answers on how
long the Federal Reserve will keep rates
on hold at what's likely to be JPAL's
final press conference as Fed chair.
Pria Mizra of JP Morgan writing, "We can
see the Fed cutting rates in the second
half if core inflation slows down." Pria
has more. Pria, good morning. It's good
to see you.
>> Thanks you. Thanks for having me.
>> Let's get into it. Let's talk about what
you're expecting in the news conference
and in the statement later this
afternoon.
>> Sure. So, clearly no uh no uh you know
actual policy decision. What I'll be
watching for is what's the you know any
sort of sense around this two-sided
risk. It it came up in the minutes. We
don't think that that'll happen. I think
Chair Pa has to keep talking about
patience. wait and see. There's so much
uncertainty. There's uncertainty on the
inflation front. Do we get those second
order effects on core inflation? You
know, what happens to wages? There's
also the labor market. So, there's
uncertainty on both ends. There's this
AI once in a generation, you know,
productivity increase. How does the Fed
sort of navigate this? And I think they
want he wants to come out of today, I
think, with no market move because it's
all about when does that straight open?
What happens to the AI earnings? I think
that's really he wants to say nothing. I
don't know if he's going to tell us
whether he's going to stay on at the
Fed. I hope he does. It's a
riskmanagement move, which he's
brilliant for doing these risk
management moves, but I think he just
wants a boring wait and see. You know,
this is not our circus. That sort of an
>> We'll spend some more time on his future
in just a moment. I just have one final
question on a more symmetrical reaction
function. If they try and articulate
that later this afternoon, would you
believe them?
>> Um, I mean, I think they are data
dependent. So, but I think if they
signal that a hike is as likely as a
cut, I think the market's going to
react. I don't think we're priced for
that. We were maybe, you know, two weeks
ago, but now we've actually come back.
We've we've I think we realize the
market realizes that the bar to hike is
high. If they say it's equally likely, I
think the market will react. I would
look to fade it because here's the
issue. Oil prices are high and those,
you know, forwards are starting to move
up. There's a nonlinear impact at some
point. It's very hard to argue at what
level of these longerdated forwards if
oil prices stay high. That's a hit to
consumer real disposable income. That's
a hit to margins potentially with with
companies. I think it starts to wear on
growth. But I think, you know, so do
they actually end up hiking? I think
very unlikely if oil prices stay here or
higher. But the market's absolutely
going to react because I don't think
we're positioned for a symmetric
reaction function here.
>> The market's definitely going to react
to any kind of commentary about whether
Fed Chair Jay Powell is going to be
governor. uh still at the end of May or
the end of December. Poly market has
some odds on that. 35% chance that
they're gonna he'll be there uh at until
he will leave the board by May 30th and
an 82% chance by December 31st. In the
rates market, will there be a reaction
if he gives a signal one way or another?
>> So, I don't think so. I think, you know,
we've been all debating this and it's a
little sad that we're debating that more
than, you know, when will the straight
open and what's the impact on the
economy. You know, I think the Fed is a
democracy. Uh he has one vote. So if he
does leave, I don't think there's a big
reaction. I do hope he stays. He's a
credible permanent voter. There's a lot
of debate at the Fed around current
policy as well as the framework, this
regime change that Kevin Walsh wants. I
think to have chair pow or you know uh
Jay Powell stay on as governor. He's
going to have a a say in that matter. I
don't think he's going to be shadow fed
chair. I think he's very careful. He
will be very careful to let Kevin Walsh
lead the Fed. But I think just having
him there would be nice. It's a
riskmanagement exercise as we're calling
it. But I don't think if he says he's
done, I think we should applaud him.
He's the soft landing guy. He managed to
cut rates, hike rates a lot, then cut
rates, deal with two QTs. You know, I
think we would all be very grateful for
the service to the Fed. But I don't
think the institutional credibility is
at stake if he decides to leave because
you've got, you know, many Fed
officials, 18 other Fed officials who
are going to do the right thing for the
economy. And I think the, you know, I'm
less worried about Fed independence, you
know, really unanch anchoring the long
end.
>> This is the point that a lot of people
have honed in on, the fact that a Kevin
Worsh Fed doesn't seem to be shifting
long-term expectations of inflation or
even any kind of disruption to the bond
market. You could get into a discussion
about whether Fed Chair Jay Powell
should stay on as governor or not, but
do you think that that's notable and
actually telling that the market seems
to be completely okay with Kevin Worsh
as almost a continuity Fed chair?
>> Right. because we heard the hearing and
we didn't hear anything really crazy
from Kevin Walsh. I mean he talked about
looking at trimmed PCE. Well, we do look
at the Fed looks at trim PC. Remember
core uh you know core uh X core we the
Fed does look at a variety of underlying
inflation measures. So we heard that
from Kevin Walsh. Well that's
continuity. We heard about no forward
guidance. Well the Fed has been in data
dependent mode for the last few years. I
don't think they're actually giving us
much forward guidance. He talked about
using monetary policy as the primary
tool. That's where the Fed is at. I
think communication is the one I
struggle a little bit with because that
is different. And you know, is that
changing the SCP? Is that giving
scenarios? I think that's fair. Is that
you know, nobody else speaks other than
Fed Chair Walsh? I think then that's
different. But we haven't heard that and
it's not clear that that's what he
wants. So yeah, I think you know in all
the scenarios I think actually we heard
Kevin Walsh's statement said he's
credible. He's going to come in. He's
got ideas. Every fetch comes in with
ideas on communication. They make
changes but it's a collegial consensus
building institution. I think that's
what they'll do. That's where the
markets.
>> But how does Kevin Worsh go on a regime
change journey with J. Powell hovering
above him?
>> I think it's going to be, you know, a
discussionbased format. I think J.
Powell if he stays on as governor he's
going to have a view in it uh you know
on that decision so will every other I
think 18 other members will have a view
on how it's done certainly 12 in terms
of voting decisions or 11 others beyond
Kevin Walsh so I don't think he
overshadows um you know uh he's he's
been a governor for a while he just
stays on as a governor with a chair
coming up with an idea and they've
debated the framework review has
happened twice I think they're used to
debating you know should we be changing
communication? Should we be changing the
inflation target? They just did that.
So, I think it'll be somewhat similar.
>> Pria, good to see you. Lots to think
about. Pri Misra there of JP Morgan
Asset Management going into this Fed
decision later on this afternoon.
Special coverage starts right here on
Bloomberg TV at 1:30 Eastern time. The
decision at 2 p.m. the news conference
about 30 minutes later.
>> Yeah. The decision on rates or the
decision for Jay Powell because
ultimately that is going to be the main
discussion of what we're going to be
talking about later this afternoon. If
institutional credibility is not at risk
if he leaves,
>> why does he stank?
>> Fair question. Maybe he just wants to.
Maybe he just loves everybody and really
just he enjoys it. He wants to enjoy the
president.
>> I honestly think he wants
>> We got some time to have this debate.
>> Fun.
>> I think he wants to deliver some
speeches and make some money,
>> right? That's that's what I think. I
mean, you'd [music] think
>> you'd think.
>> You'd think.
>> Coming up next, we'll catch up with
Sarah Hunt of Alpine Saxon Woods. Libby
Cantrol of Pimco, Chris M of Ocean First
Bank. Plus, we speak to the former
[music] Kansas City Fed President,
Esther George.
There's not going to be any family
fights. Fed stays on hold.
>> The resilience of the US consumer is an
important factor.
>> What we're going to hear from Powell
[music] is uncertainty.
>> It's a very difficult situation for
anybody to come in and start cutting.
>> Maybe they cut by the end of the year.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
[music] Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern,
>> live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance [music] starts
right now. And your scores look like
this. Equity futures on the S&P 500
bouncing back by just a tenth of 1% on
the NASDAQ up by 3/10en of 1%. In the
oil market, commodities look like this.
Bren up again. Bren 114 and higher by 3%
and over the last week or so higher by
some 26 27%. The rally unreal. WTI
triple digits coming up later. Look at
the state of this. What a day. Federal
Reserve decision 2 p.m. Eastern time. 30
minutes later a news conference after
the close. Earnings from Alphabet,
[music] Microsoft, Amazon, and Meta.
>> You know, it's a little too much. I
mean, we've got the geopolitics. We've
got uh this question about domestic
friction and questions about Fed
independence [music] and what is the
future of Fed chair Jay Powell, the soap
opera that continues. And then we've got
corporate America delivering a 14.3
trillion market cap of just a complete
bazooka of earnings after the bell. You
put it all together, it's like the
crescendo. It'd be great finale, right?
If we were ending and then we could go
home and be done. But there is a sense
that going forward, this really is all
going to hinge on the earnings from the
big tech to keep supporting something
that otherwise seems to be unshakable.
>> I hate to break it to you. It's April
29th, [laughter]
>> not even May.
>> It feels like a great finale, though,
doesn't it?
>> Bremo feels like we're in Q4.
>> Yeah.
>> Ready to take an extended break.
>> I'm not the only one.
>> No, I I I know you're not. This feels
like one big long trading day over the
last 3 months. [music] I understand
that. The one constant crude higher,
eight consecutive sessions now. Brent
crude up again by close to 3%. 114 and
only $4 away from the closing high since
this war started. So obviously this
comes as the president is going to
continue this blockade according to the
Wall Street Journal. What I find
interesting is the [music] journal
reporting is that when the president
assessed other options, one would be to
escalate, continue bombing or deescalate
and walk away. Neither the president
wants to do. So basically we're in this
status quo. [music]
As you see the Iranians really start to
pull out a number of levers like
bringing out very old tankers and just
trying anywhere to store some crude,
store some oil before they are forced to
shutins. [music] I imagine the White
House calculuses give them the hardest,
most brutal economic pain and see if
that works in terms of diplomacy.
>> And that moving crude just every single
day just slowly eating away at the bond
market. Just [music] every day yours
just grinding high just a little bit
more at the long end and the front end.
The long end sitting right below really
tight just a few basis points away from
the highs of the year on 30s on twos. Up
again this morning by one or two basis
points 385 going into this Fed meeting
this afternoon. A couple of weeks ago,
uh, bond yields were higher and
marketkedly so, rapidly so, because
people [music] expected some sort of
central bank response to higher oil
prices in the form of rate hikes. Then
people said, "Wait a second, this could
potentially suppress growth. This could
be more of a growth killer than an
inflation shock." And then just slowly
as oil prices have crept higher, we've
seen earnings come in stronger than
expected in consumers that have been
able to absorb some of these price
increases. And suddenly, it's a one-two
shock. It's both inflationary and
potentially depressive to growth. And
that is the quag buyer for central bank.
I know there's an obsession about
chairman Pal's future. I understand why
I've got all that. Actually think the
more interesting piece of this now is
actually the assessment of where we are
in this economy, what their outlook
looks like and whether they move to a
more symmetrical reaction function to
basically articulate that the likelihood
of a hike is just as likely there is a
cut. I don't know if people will believe
them when they say that, but surely the
market's going to react if they say
that. Beth Hammock is a voice on the
Federal Reserve Board and from the
Cleveland Fed and she has been talking
about this symmetric risk more
aggressively talking about the potential
for [music] inflation to come back. Do
you hear that reflected and ultimately
is that what the market wants to hear or
will they freak out and that I think
will be very interesting as well?
>> Futures this morning up by a tenth of 1%
on the S&P 500. Coming up, we'll catch
up with Sarah Hunt of Alpine Sax and
Woods with big tech earnings on deck.
Libby Cantrol Pimco drops by as the
Pentagon's defense budget faces GOP push
back and the former Kansas City Fed
President Esther George on the central
bank's decision day. We begin this hour
with stocks finding their footing on the
busiest day of earning season. Sarah
Hunt of Alpine Saxon Woods writing, "AI
is the story that keeps on giving. It
will be critically important to see how
investors react to the announcements
made by the mega cap tech stocks later
on today." Sarah joins us now for more.
Sarah, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> What are you expecting to see this
afternoon?
I would love to see everybody say things
that are in line with what everyone is
expecting on the capex front, on
everything else. I'd love to see
everything come in in a way that calms
everybody down post the AI story that
hap that started yesterday. I don't know
what we're going to get. I mean, I
suspect from looking at the
semiconductors that you should be
getting pretty good news, right? So, so
what we've seen so far looks like things
should be pretty good, but it's it's
more critical now because of that AI
story, open AI story yesterday, that
that circular argument people get more
worried about. So, we'll have to see how
that plays out.
>> Is inline capex good enough to validate
the rally we've seen in semis?
>> I think so. I mean, they jacked capex up
in December, right? So, they talked a
lot about this for in the fourth
quarter. I think now you've got that
tension because you're seeing people
being either laid off or bought out or
discussions of layoffs. I think if you
go too much higher, you're gonna get
people starting to worry again whether
or not that capex is going to be
productive enough, especially if they're
get laying off employees. So, I think
that in line is probably the cleanest,
most neutral way to go, but we'll have
to see how that how that plays.
>> One of the most convincing arguments
from some of the bears is we just don't
know how AI is going to evolve and who's
going to be the winner longer term. Do
you think we'll get a sense of who's hot
and who's not in the sense of Google's
Gemini really picking up some market
share say versus open AI maybe some of
the other chat bots out there uh versus
Microsoft which has kind of struggled in
some of their cloud adoption compared to
Google and AWS.
>> I think you I think you'll consider
continue to see that differentiation and
I think that that's again why it's
important that this goes well just
because you have that softness out of
open AI. If somebody else is picking
that up, that's different than everybody
else slowing down on growth, right? So
there there would be a difference there
and people are going to be looking for
that because everyone is looking to make
sure that this growth is still as strong
as it has been. And the bigger you get
and the larger the numbers get, the
harder that becomes, but I think right
now given what's also happening with
energy prices and in Iran, like if the
straight was open, I would say it's
probably less of an issue. But because
it's still closed, you need to keep that
juggernaut moving higher. And right now
that has been very narrowly driving the
markets higher. John's been really good
about talking about the cyclical aspects
of some of these businesses and what we
could hear with respect to Meta
advertising, Amazon consumer products.
Do you think that this will be a
cautious moment for them given some of
the rhetoric that we've heard from other
officials which frankly others
executives I should say which have been
kind of mixed? On one hand, they've had
really good earnings. They see a strong
consumer. On the other hand, they feel
like they have to say, well, you know,
things might not continue if things get
worse in the Middle East. Well, and I
think that this is the this is the
trouble that higher energy prices over a
longer period of time start to have
because we've seen good retail sales,
we've seen good economic numbers, but
the question is how long can that
continue if you are not solving the
problem that is really a supply and a
Gordian knot problem of everything
getting out at the same time and getting
back into the back into a cadence of of
tankers coming out because all that last
landing of oil which has sort of
cushioned all of this is kind of over
and that's going to be a problem if we
don't start to see that resume.
>> Do you think that's why the oil market
is holding on to these gains? They're
starting to wake up to the blockade is
is staying and we are at the final
cushion that they've been building up.
>> Well, and I think there's been all sorts
of regional differentials of crude
prices that are not reflected in the
futures that we see that are more the
trading sardines and not the eating
sardines, right? So, I think that there
is an issue about different crude
differentials across the world and where
the refining slates are. And again, this
isn't this is an issue that from a
logistics standpoint is going to take
some time to play out. So, I think it's
reasonable to see higher prices for a
longer period of time.
>> Do you think these two stories are
connected? Meaning, if all the tech
companies do really well today and the
market goes higher, would that embolden
Trump to be more aggressive in in Iran?
>> I I'm Well, it's interesting. It's an
interesting question because I think
that I was going to say I'm not sure it
matters, but it does matter. There there
is attention paid to where financial
markets go and I think that if this had
been a slide from when this started, we
would be having a different
conversation. I'm not sure there's a
difference right this minute because
we're so close to highs. I think you'd
have to see more sustained problem or
more sustained volatility for that to be
part of the conversation. But I think
that because of where we are, it gives
more room.
>> Let's go back to when we started. So
February 27th, the market closed on that
Friday. Exxon was trading at 15250.
Let's go back to that Friday, February
27th. And I turn around to you and I
say, Sarah, Exxon just closed at 15250.
I'm going to tell you exactly what
happens over the next two months. the
straight of hormers will be shut for the
next two months. Would you have said
that Exxon would be trading at 15056
at the close as of yesterday?
>> No.
>> What's going on there? What does that
tell you? So I I think it tells you that
there is a and and I don't think it's a
wrong belief that once you sort out the
logistics problems, oil prices are
coming down and you're not bidding up
the oil producers right now because you
think this is a temporary spike in
prices and companies never get credit
when they're over earning for some
reason that people think is temporary.
So if you think about anything that's a
commodity, if you have higher chemical
prices for a period of time, they don't
get the they don't get the credit for
higher prices and higher earnings
because people expect the earnings and
the outy years to come down. I think
there's an expectation that when you
solve the logistics, we were not short
of oil before this started. We need all
the energy because we're building all
these data centers and we need all the
things. But oil wasn't in the supply
shock is not because we have demand so
high that we don't have enough supply.
the supply shack because we can't get
it. And I think the expectation is
that's not going to change that rapidly.
And so you're not bidding up the big
producers.
>> There's a point that some of the guests
on the show have made, which is the
longer this goes on, the more that
structural demand for oil will go down
over the long term. People will look for
other ways to diversify away from being
so dependent on these particular
producers. Is the price action that John
was talking about sussing this out in
any capacity?
>> I know. So I I would push back on that a
little bit and I would say that I think
that because we have so much of a high
demand for energy overall. Yes, you have
temporary swings and you have people
switching to EVs, but that's not going
to be I don't think on the margin enough
to make that change. You would have to
have a much more sustained drop in
demand for you'd have to have a swapping
you'd have to be able to swap out jet
fuel, right? You can't swap out jet
fuel. you can't. There are certain
transportation fuels and oil is
generally speaking more used for
transportation than for generating
electricity. So, it's I think that
that's a little bit premature until we
have a substitute that you can really
count on in volume and right now I don't
think we have that.
>> Sarah, good to see you. Thanks for
dropping by. Thank you. What a day ahead
we've got. Sarah Hunt there of Alpine
Saxon Woods Brent Crew this morning just
short of 115 with an update on stories
worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Vonnie Quinn has more.
Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. President Trump
telling his staff to prepare for an
extended US naval blockade of the
straight of form. The Wall Street
Journal reporting the president has
decided the blockade is a less risky
option than resuming bombing or
extracting the US from the conflict
entirely.
The FCC is starting a review of the TV
station licenses owned by Disney's ABC
network over potential unlawful
discrimination tied [music] to the
commission's inquiry into Disney's DEI
practices. The eight Disney owned
stations are directed to file license
renewals at least 2 years earlier than
otherwise required.
The State Department will offer a new
version of US [music] passports
featuring a picture of President Donald
Trump inside to commemorate the 250th
anniversary of American independence.
[music] The picture of Trump will be on
one of the inside pages with the
president's signature in gold appearing
below. And that is your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Vonnie, thank you. More from Vonyie
later this hour. Up next on the program,
unmatched military spending. [music]
>> We have the most powerful, most lethal,
most sophisticated, and most fearsome.
It's a fearsome military on planet
Earth.
>> There's a [music] bit of push back down
in Washington. We'll get to that story
with Libby Cantrol of Pimco live from
New York City this morning. Good
morning.
>> [music]
>> Small bands this morning. Equities high
up by 0.1% on [music] the S&P 500. On
the Nasdaq up by 0.4. What an afternoon
coming up for the Nasdaq 100. Four
major. Four of the biggest companies on
the planet. Reporting earnings later.
Bramo's upset. She thinks she should
spread [music] it out Tuesday through
Friday.
>> I just think every company should get
its due considering that each one of
these is a huge component of our
economy. They each should get their
moment in the sun. I love that we're
talking with Sarah Hunt just a minute
ago. You said, "What's the best case
scenario?" She said, "We get no news.
It's everything's in line and we could
just keep going." And that ultimately I
get it, but also if they were all doing
separately, then we'd be interested.
>> Korea is saying the same thing about the
Federal Reserve. That's the goal for
Chairman Pal. They want a no news
afternoon.
>> Yeah, which is just not going to happen
outside
>> with a schedule like this one.
>> It's I'm [music] actually really
excited, but I do think spread the love.
>> Let's turn commodities. Brent crude up
for an eighth consecutive session now.
We're higher [music] over that period by
close to 27%. Bren this morning at 11460
and higher today by 3%. [music]
Under Sylvanas this morning, unmatched
military spending.
>> We have the most powerful, most lethal,
most sophisticated, and most fearsome.
It's a fearsome military on planet
Earth.
>> We have the strongest and most powerful
by far military in the world.
>> We have the greatest military in the
world by far. Our military is
unsurpassed. There's never been anything
like it. Nobody's ever seen anything
like it.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
Defense Secretary Pete Hexth heading to
Capitol Hill to defend President Trump's
$ 1.5 trillion defense budget as it
faces bipartisan push back down in
Washington DC. Joining us now for more,
Tyler Kendall. Morning, Tyler.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Well, the White
House is asking for the largest
single-year increase to the Pentagon's
budget since World War II. But
Republican aids tell me this is just a
request. We should view it more as a
guidepost on where priorities are. And
if we look at the fuller picture of
President Trump's budget proposal, we
are seeing a massive defense buildup
paid in part by cuts to domestic
agencies. And that could potentially set
up some political risk as we head into
the midterms and against the backdrop of
an Iran war that is causing consumers to
pay higher gas prices. And that could be
part of why we're starting to see some
uncertainty from Republicans when it
comes to this budget proposal, including
the Senate's top appropriator, Susan
Collins, who has previously supported
hefty defense increases, but now finds
herself in a tight re-election race.
We're also hearing some concerns from
conservatives when it comes to the idea
that they would need to see more offsets
if there's going to be more spending.
But again, that could set up some
political risk. Plus, some other
lawmakers are now floating the idea that
they could condition their vote on more
spending if Congress is able to get a
vote to authorize the war in Iran as we
approach that 60-day mark. Now, keep in
mind here, this is the president's
fiscal year budget request. We're not
even talking about an expected
supplemental request from the
administration. may be in the range of
$50 billion. We've gotten a few
different reporting and um talk about it
from lawmakers. But John, that may be
the fastest and easiest way to surge
more funds to the Pentagon because by
and large Republicans do support the
president's military aims.
>> Tyler Kendall down in Washington. Tyler,
thank you. Let's build on this
conversation. Pleased to say joining us
around a table, good friend of this
program, Libby Cantrol of PIMCO. Libby,
good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> We've lost all appreciation for how big
these numbers are. what's their track
record of understanding where the one
trillion goes, never mind the 1.5.
>> Yeah. I mean, I think as as Tyler said,
I mean, this is basically sort of
reflective of the president's wish list.
Um, this is an opening bid, if you will.
The budget is, you know, kind of
suggests what the president's priorities
are, but we should also realize that it
is going to the the actual spend, the
actual appropriation for defense come
for FY27 is going to be much smaller.
Um, historically this has been, as
Amarino knows, sort of $800 billion um,
you know, up to a trillion dollars of
defense spending as of last year. A $1.5
trillion dollar spending. Again, this is
like pie in the sky kind of things. It's
really to frame the negotiation. I think
it does emphasize though, it underscores
how important the defense component is,
maybe surprisingly, uh, to this
administration. So again, I think we
should take this with a grain of salt.
Our view is that we probably see maybe a
small tick up in terms of defense
spending. That would land around a
trillion dollars. Obviously, much short
of the one and a half trillion dollars.
>> Do they have to get this done before the
midterms?
>> Uh yeah, I mean, look, as you know, the
end of the fiscal year is is September
30th. Uh oftentimes they're operating
under something called a continuing
resolution, as we all know, which is
basically just a stop gap funding bill.
Um does this get a lot harder? I maybe
they get to do it in the lame duck uh
which is of course the period after the
election before the end of this
Congress. But look, I think that just in
general uh after the midterm elections,
things are just going to get much more
difficult for the Republicans. So any of
these things that feel pretty ambitious,
they should be trying to get done. The
real story, I think, on Capitol Hill
right now is just the lack of real
progress in anything. Even though
Republicans control both chambers of
Congress, there is just very, as you
very little movement on things that are
FISA, the farm bill. I mean, things are
kind of like the blocking and tackling
of Congress. But I think does represent
the fact that it's really difficult to
get things done with small majorities,
even when one party controls both
chambers.
>> Well, also what's interesting about
today is not just the defense budget
request, but also Pete Hexath is going
to be really the hot seat. And I've
heard rumors that he's been kind of on
thin ice. There's been mixed feelings
about how Republicans in Congress feel
about him. Do you think this is
potentially a huge moment for him on
whether or not the president decides to
keep him on as his defense secretary?
>> Well, look, I think you're absolutely
right. He is going to get a lot of
pressure. Um I think a lot of
Republicans while publicly they're
supporting this Iranian conflict
privately, uh there's, you know, some
growing skepticism about how long we're
in this, what the strategic objectives
are, what the sort of framework for
success is. And as you know, there's
sort of this War Powers Act that could
require Congress to actually authorize
this conflict in Iran. So, I think
you're going to get a lot of push back
on him more just trying to get details
about what the strategy is in terms of,
you know, his future in the cabinet. I
mean, it's it's an open question for
anybody in any administration. I will
say though, as you get closer to the
midterms and as we're looking at
potentially either a narrower Republican
margin in the Senate or even potentially
the Senate flipping to Democratic
control, there will be pressure for
folks to go so the president can
renominate people while the Republicans
still, you know, have have the the
existing majority in the Senate.
>> Still trying to wrap my head around $1.5
trillion, a 44% [laughter] increase in
the defense spending. I mean, this to me
highlights just how high the bar is to
get anyone concerned about fiscal
issues. I mean given the fact that our
debt to GDP is right there behind
Maldivs, Bahrain, Greece, and Sudan.
Here we are. So it just raises this
issue. At what point will people start
actually pushing back and saying, "Wait
a second. We're supposed to care about
the deficit. When are we going to do
that again?"
>> Lisa, I love the fact that you care
about the deficit as much as we do at
PICO. Yes. I mean, we talk about the
deficits a lot. Uh and I we're talking a
lot to our clients, of course, a lot
about it. You know, I think we as we
have said many times before, the
treasuries benefit, treasury uh bonds
benefit from this idea of like the
cleanest dirty shirt that like all of
the, you know, all of your shirts are
dirty in the sort of sovereign uh bond
closet. Uh but the treasuries continue
to be the cleanest dirty shirt. And that
is still true, right? The the US still
has the most mo the most dynamic, most
sort of innovative economy. It's the
most liquid and deep bond market.
However, uh we're you know we're hearing
from clients both in the US and overseas
of these sort of continued worries not
only in the US of course but in other
developed countries but in the US you
know and as I've been saying sort of
Congress will keep on dancing as long as
the music is playing and if the bond
market is not a constraint then what is
a constraint? Not to get too wonky here,
but I think one thing just to have on
your radar is I would assume this would
be an issue in 2028 because the Social
Security trust fund is supposed to go
bankrupt, meaning it will pay out less
than it it brings in in 2033. That might
feel like far away. It's really not. And
so policy makers are going to have to
start talking about this. I would be
surprised if this is not a presidential
election. Be still our heart that we
actually start talking about deficits.
But in between then, six to seven%
deficits, you know, six seven six seven%
deficits as a percentage of GDP. I mean,
this is very high and we're not even in
a recession and we're really not at war.
So, yes, I mean, I we we we hear you. We
share your concerns.
>> I feel heard,
>> but again, I just don't think that
unless the bond market is going to be
the constraint and like, you know,
there's some concerns at the long end,
but it really has not been that kind of
that that constraint. How much is this a
big point in the Kevin Worsh nomination
and any kind of Fed Treasury accord,
especially given the fact that the
Treasury is shifting away from long-term
issuance, issuing more on the front end,
and we're talking about ways to
potentially lower rates on the front
end.
>> Yeah, look, I mean, you know, I think we
would be um I think we we'll just we'll
sort of have to wait and see in terms of
this accord. There's only so much, of
course, that Kevin Worsh can do as
chair. the chair is important but not
omni omnipotent meaning like the power
persuasion is important in terms of the
chair position but he's only one vote
and as it relates to the balance sheet
he's only one vote of 12 and he's
obvious of course one only one vote of
12 on on rates as well so you know we'll
we'll just sort of see what he can do in
terms of the balance sheet and then you
know the treasury is increasing their
buyback program that is something that
they have been doing um but there's also
a limit there right they do not have a
balance sheet it has to be balance sheet
neutral so there's only so much they can
do in terms of um you know buybacks and
what have you without really affecting
the weighted average maturity of of
Treasury bonds. We're getting really
wonky here.
>> Your base case just a basic question.
Midler May, does Chairman Pal step snap
away?
>> You know, again, open question. Um I
think he will need to have every
confidence in the world that this
investigation I think both at the Fed in
terms of the IG investigation and then
also at the DOJ is put to bed. You know,
my view, my guess, my speculation is it
would make sense if he were to stay
beyond the midterms just to sort of see
what that again, I'm not I'm not trying
to make news here. This is just this is
just a guess. Okay.
>> Uh but
but but you just you think if you're
worried about Fed independence, you're
going to really want to see what that
Senate majority looks like. Um and of
course then it also gives you some time
with Kevin Worsh as well. So I just
think but the the the big point here is
does it really matter and I just that
the Fed is boxed in here in terms of the
macroeconomic conditions and a Kevin
Worsh Fed a Powell Fed I guess in the
next few months will it look that
different. I'm just not sure if the
inflation numbers and the growth numbers
will really allow them to do you know to
just take too much of a different
posture.
>> Libby appreciate your time.
>> Thanks.
>> Thank you for the deficit therapy as
well. Libby Cantrol there of Pima.
>> Thank you. I forget which congressman it
was, but I think he said something like,
"We've been throwing Ferraris at frisbes
in the Middle East."
>> Well, this is the issue, right? How much
you spending a million dollars for a
$5,000 drone, [music]
>> right?
>> Got to stop that.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Ocean First
Bank CEO Chris Mah as AI fears return
ahead of big tech earnings later [music]
this afternoon.
The future's just about positive. What a
day ahead we've got of us. Ahead of us.
I'll get my words out. Equity futures
right now in the S&P up by a tenth of
1%. [music] On the NASDAQ, we're up by
0.3%. What a run we're seeing in crude.
8 days of gains for Brent. Brent [music]
crude on the longest winning streak
since 2022, May of that year, I believe.
Just short of 115 this morning on Brent.
up by 3% and just short of the closing
high of the year so far which was 118 in
the bond market. When you see those
[music] kind of moves you just fold it
into fixed income drifting high at the
front end of the curve again up by close
to two basis points twos at 385 heading
into this Fed meeting this afternoon.
>> Yeah, to me I think the one-two punch is
actually going to be really interesting.
At what point do you start hearing
companies be concerned about the
inflationary hit from higher oil prices
that then goes into either reduced
demand or them jacking up prices and
being able to charge more? And that
might give the answer to the Federal
Reserve. In some ways, the answer will
be decided [music] for the Fed by the
companies and the policy and what goes
on in the geopolitics more than by the
Fed itself.
>> Have you noticed everyone dancing around
the chairman pal issue today? It's been
fairly entertaining. [music]
>> You mean in terms of what they do and
don't want to say?
>> Yeah. They don't want to really weigh in
on this in any capacity.
>> Maybe he was talking about him maybe
staying beyond [music] the midterms,
>> but you know, she doesn't really want
>> to see what happens in the midterms.
>> There is a sense, well, there are
twofold issues. Number one, he wants to
immunize himself in potential legal
probes. So, he doesn't want to
necessarily get hinged and if he stays
on, [music] it might immunize him a
little bit more. And number two, there's
a feeling that maybe there's going to be
a padding out of the Fed or some kind of
other issue that he's trying to avoid.
That's my
>> not political, but we're waiting for the
consequences and the outcome of a
political vote later this Well, you can
get into this argument and that's why
people don't want to because it's
>> it's already political.
>> Well, right, but it's fraud and and
there's no real market upside for them
to talk about it just like there's no
real upside for me to talk about it.
>> Pria earlier was talking about [music]
him potentially leaving and if he left
it wouldn't damage institutional
credibility anyway because that remains
[music] intact. So why are we talking
about him staying? Why does he need to
stay?
>> You know, I guess these are all
questions that need to be asked today in
the news conference and maybe they can
>> doing it too. You don't want to go
there.
>> Well, you know, I don't have really a
hard feeling on I think that you have
more passionate feelings about it and
I'm looking at what's the market
reaction and I'm not sure what [music]
the market reaction is going to be and
otherwise I mean honestly let's just get
on with it. The DOJ dropped the probe.
The inspector general is going to look
into it. I do think he has an offramp
[music] to take today. So if he doesn't
he will look political.
>> His bar, his metric is with transparency
and finality [music]
and maybe he decides that we haven't met
that bar and that's really the question
I think for this afternoon. And what
types of continuing probes are he is he
going to be looking for to be dropped
potentially exit stage left? Look, it's
a valid question. I'm not undermining
it. I'm just
>> I'll get Brown's opinion by the end of
the show. We just keep
>> We're going to have a We're having a
vote today at the Senate Banking
Committee for Kevin Worsh that two
Democrats might vote for [music] him. If
there's a bipartisan vote for the
incoming Fed chair, then why is he
sticking around?
>> He's got establishment support,
>> right?
>> Yeah. Well, and and market support, too,
if you actually take it credibility.
We'll get there eventually. [music] Two
hours away from the cash open this
morning with your morning movers.
Yahihira has more. Hey yhra.
>> Hi John. The bar was pretty high for
Humanana going into earnings because the
insurance industry has been doing pretty
well including due to improving cost
trends. So even though the company beat
on earnings um it it is holding its
guidance steady and that is not landing
well. So shares are down uh 3/4 of a
[music] percent. Moving on to Starbucks.
Those shares are rising nearly 5% in the
pre-market as the turnaround takes hold
due to the US consumer showing up in
force, helping the coffee chain beat
expectations and [music] boosting its
outlook even as China remains a weak
spot. But overall CEO Brian Nichols
saying that more customers are visiting
their stores and when they're there,
they [music] are spending more. And take
a look at Robin Hood shares. They are
plunging down uh more than 11% [music]
in the pre-market revenue coming in
light. And the story there really has to
do with the retail investor pulling back
amid volatility due to the Iran war. You
also have Robin Hood saying that their
expenses [music] jumped and warning that
its involvement in Trump accounts will
involve another $100 million in
investment. John [music]
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yhira in the
next hour. On our radar this morning,
President Donald Trump telling aids to
prepare for an extended naval blockade
of the straight of moods. The Wall
Street Journal reporting the president
thinks the blockade carries less risk
than resuming hostilities. Elsewhere,
it's the busiest day of the current
earning season with more than 14
trillion in market cap reporting,
including results from four of the Mac
7, Alphabet, Microsoft, Amazon, and Meta
reporting after the closing bell. And
finally, the Senate Banking Committee
likely to approve Kevin Walsh's
nomination for Fed chair in a vote later
this morning. If Walsh clears the panel,
his nomination will head to the full
Senate for a final confirmation vote.
>> Can you imagine if he also gets
confirmed today and then heads over to
the Fed and says, you know, I'm going to
sit here, too. Guess what? I'm Fed chair
now. Washington doesn't move that
quickly. [laughter]
>> I mean, you know, make it really
dramatic. We could really increase the
drama of this finale.
>> Well, Muhammad Alan is putting out on
Twitter that really what matters more is
going to be the politics. Will Chair
Powell repeat the defiant tone of his
dramatic January video? And I think
that's why this is important. Jay Powell
could make this about himself if he
stays on as governor and less about the
institution. And I think it would be
incredibly interesting if he decides
that he's going to announce he's staying
on when there, as I just said,
potentially bipartisan support for Kevin
Walsh out of the Senate Banking
Committee.
>> It risk creating a dependency issue when
there isn't one. I also think the way
they talk about the Federal Reserve
right now undermines the people already
on the FOMC. This is not the Supreme
Court. This is the Federal Reserve. And
just breaking down the board by who the
president has appointed and who he
hasn't, isn't really how this works. And
I think it it throws a lot of mud at the
otherwise fantastic work that the likes
of Governor Waller, who was also
nominated by this president in his first
term, is doing at the Federal Reserve.
This is not the Supreme Court. Other
people have opinions on the future of
this institution. It's a deliberative
body that come up to decisions in a way
that we weren't maybe 20, 30 years ago
when one man set the tone for the whole
committee. That's changed. I don't see
it flipping back to that anytime soon.
>> It's a fair point. He has to articulate
what concerns him that would require him
to stay on. And I think that that is
sort of the key point. I will say Steven
Myron, this is going to be his last uh
time at the Federal Reserve. Then his
term is up and that's who Kevin Moore
should be replacing. So there are a
number of moving pieces here that we
have to consider.
>> Exactly. That was going to be my next
point. Spare a thought for Governor
Meerin. He whether or not he has a job
or not depends on what Powell might say
today because he can potentially stay
and take Powell's seat. But if Powell
stays on and maybe that's what this is
actually all about. Maybe J. Powell
actually doesn't want Myin to to to stay
at the Fed. So he says, "I'm going to
stay a little bit longer. Maybe Myron
goes out and gets a new job and doesn't
wait around for Pal to leave."
>> Today's going to be a long day. We'll
have more time to talk about this. Let's
talk about those tech earnings coming as
a new wave of AI anxiety leaves
investors questioning the capex spend.
Ocean First Bank chairman and CEO
Christopher M, I'm pleased to say, joins
us around the table. Chris, good
morning. Good to see you.
>> Morning, John. Great to be here.
>> Is this the real deal? So, we've got
these doubts about Open AI and their
spending commitments because they're not
seeing the internal growth and they're
falling short of their own targets
internally. Do you think it's the real
deal? Are you seeing the kind of growth
that you'd expect from this kind of
technology?
>> Uh, well, we're certainly seeing it.
We're seeing it uh not only within our
own firm, our peers, our clients. Uh
you're seeing these dramatic
improvements in your ability to produce
not just there's a lot of focus on the
AI itself, you know, this decision
engines and you know, um but as
important as that is this revolution in
the way you build technology from a
coding perspective. So we're seeing our
engineers able to be dramatically more
productive than they've ever been. So
you can automate things you would never
have considered automating before. And
we're seeing really important gains. You
know, things where we're taking 75 80%
of the time out of a process. Uh which
improves the experience for our clients,
makes things less expensive for us, but
um it's it's on both sides, not just
decisioning.
>> I'm going to reduce this in a really
crude fashion, so forgive me, but
ultimately this is the focus. Revenue
growth relative to the size of the
workforce. Are you going to get more
from the same size of the workforce or
are you going to get more from even
less? How do you think about the
trade-off between the two? You're
certainly going to get more for the same
size of the workforce. So when I think
about our bank, when I joined, we had
about $10 million in assets per
employee. You just think about that as a
crude measure of efficiency. We're now
at 16 million. I think we're going to be
north of 20 million within the next 6 to
12 months. So it's a huge opportunity
for you to run an operation much more
effectively.
>> Is there a limit to how much people are
willing to invest if the costs go up?
But I'm talking about the component
costs. I'm talking about just the
commodity costs as well as just the
supply de demand dynamics.
>> You know, Lisa, I I I think that when
you look at everything that goes into a
data center and it's everything from
chips to concrete and steel and plumbing
and, you know, heating and cooling, um I
think we're going to we're going to have
a choppy period over the next year or
two as we balance out what investments
make sense and what the true cost of
this technology is. I think we often
overlook that the price we pay for AI
today has no relation to the cost to
deliver it. So when you think about in a
fully formed way with all these data
centers up and the energy costs what is
the cost per query what is the cost
right now it's kind of a subsidized
thing where we're getting access to the
technology very inexpensively. So as
those c fully burdened capital costs
come through we're going to see how
effective it is. Well, this is the
reason why some people are looking and
saying, well, on one hand, it capex is
good things. It represents some kind of
promise. On the other hand, are we just
paying continually more for the same
amount given the fact that prices are
going up in a significant way? I mean,
at what point does that become a
constraint in the markets? I think the
the most important short-term constraint
what we hear from our clients and our
clients are everywhere from DC to
Boston, a lot of different industries is
they're very concerned about energy
costs broadly. So yes, it's oil, but
it's also the electricity cost going up
and when they look at that input cost
and traveling through their corporations
and it's going to raise the price of
everything. So, uh, energy is a really
big conversation. It is a bigger
conversation among our customers than
employment is. and that you know you
would typically they would always
complain about employment but they're
worried about energy
>> and the conflict in Iran is just making
that worse. Are we going to hear more of
that today from the hyperscalers?
>> Yeah, you know Amry I wouldn't be
surprised because the when you think
about not just the data centers kind of
sucking up all this electricity oil on
top of that and then these multiplier
effects that those costs then just creep
their way into the logistic systems and
they make everything more expensive. So
that's the concern.
>> When you look at the space, what do you
make of anthropic and open AI? Is it
hype? Is it ahead of their IPOs or is
this real?
>> Well, you know, we we kind of go back
and forth. I think it's real. Um, I
don't think it's going to have a uniform
uh impact on everything that, you know,
people think it is. So, every, you know,
it's going to like solve world hunger
and all that. I don't think it's going
to do that. Um, but it is very
broad-based. Uh, you know, we see, you
know, our employees just experimenting
with things, bringing stuff to us. Um,
mythos is frightening. you know, when
you think about uh the security posture
of your company and the and the ability
for the bad guys to be that much more
effective. So, yeah, we got a lot to lot
to stay awake on.
>> Do you think it will help your
institution become more resilient or
expose potentially some vulnerabilities
in the industry?
>> Um, I think in the long term it helps
you become much more resilient. um the
pitfalls in the short term, right? As
you're adopting this stuff and is there
kind of a short-term issue that pops up
that you've got to deal with, but uh but
we've seen like our cyber posture over
the last several years, these tools are
really helpful uh because you can't keep
up anymore. You know, you're you're
getting attacked in a way that a human
being cannot respond to, right? We've
got these automated scripts to respond
on things. So technology is both your
friend and your adversary.
>> Chris, it's good to see you. Thanks for
breaking it down. Thank you, sir. Thank
you. Ocean First Bank chairman and CEO
Christopher Mah things moving very very
quickly. We mentioned this earlier that
12 months ago Alphabet was dead. It was
all about open AI. Then Anthropics taken
over. Alphabet's really flourishing. And
I wonder where we'll be 12 months from
now. And how much does it really hinge
on capital markets remaining open so
people can keep borrowing money or
raising money in other fashions to keep
investing in things that may change but
ultimately will protect them from some
of the cyber risks and will insulate
them from some of the uh some from the
costs from supply chains uh that they
can overcome with efficiencies of scale.
>> NASDAQ futures this morning high by 0.3%
with an update on stories worldwide with
your Bloomberg brief. Vony Quinn has
more. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John, thank you. Young brands edging
lower in pre-market trading after
beating expectations for the first
quarter on the top and bottom lines.
Same shore sales grew 8% [music] thanks
in large part to Taco Bell's value meals
offsetting more tepid results from its
other brands.
Elon Musk taking the stand in his case
against Open AI. Musk is suing Sam
Oldman's company because he says its
pivot from a charity to a for-profit
business is wrong. An attorney for
OpenAI says Musk's lawsuit is an attempt
to undermine a competitor to his own
company XAI.
UBS CEO Sergio Armotti speaking with
Bloomberg's Kai Johnson today, warning
financial markets are at risk of
overoptimism regarding the Iran
conflict.
>> The expectations is not only that things
are going to be resolved, which we
believe and hope is they're going to be
resolved, but the impact of what
happened will be resolved
>> in a classical way. We saw in the last
10 years V-shaped everything is going to
go back into normality.
>> Equity markets have risen to records
even without a clear offramp for the
conflict with Iran. And that is your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Vonnie, thank you. More from Vonnie in
30 minutes. Up next on the program,
bracing for change.
>> The momentum of the economy is there. It
will probably sustain itself, broaden in
the second half of the year. If that
happens and not only does inflation not
fall, but maybe starts to rise, we're
going to see a very, very different tone
from the Fed.
>> In just a moment, we'll catch up with
the former Kansas City Fed President,
Esther George, live from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
Here's
the shape of things this morning. Equity
futures just about unchanged on the S&P
500. Positive on the NASDAQ following
yesterday's losses. Yesterday on the
S&P, the biggest one-day loss we've seen
in about a week. Notable that we're
seeing the equal weight decline. Lisa
talked about that early this [music]
morning. Six consecutive days of
weakness there. lower across those six
days. That's the longest streak we've
seen so far this year. And with that,
this move [music] in crude, eight
consecutive days of gains for Brent.
That's the longest this year. That's the
longest daily rally we've seen going
back to [music] May of 2022. Higher by
3% at 114. Round it up to 115. That's
unsettling some things in the bond
market. At the front end of the curve,
yields just drifting higher. I've called
this stealthy [music] because it's been
quiet thisself in bonds, but we're
building and building and building and
retesting the highs of the year so far
at the long end of the curve and at the
front end up another two basis points
386.
>> It's a good characterization. Yesterday,
there was a 7-year auction and it just
tailed a little bit. It just wasn't
great. [music] And that's sort of how
all the auctions have been of late,
highlighting how people don't know how
to price what is an ongoing slowmoving
[music] crisis potentially in the works,
which is the oil price and exactly how
the economy will adjust to it. when does
it become inflationary and when does it
switch over to disinflationary because
of demand destruction?
>> Those moves going into the Federal
Reserve decision later on this afternoon
under surveillance this morning bracing
for change.
>> The Fed feel very strongly that the
excess inflation that we have right now
that the [music] bulk of that is coming
from tariffs and that should be fading
over time. The momentum of the economy
is there. It will probably sustain
itself broaden in the second half of the
year. If that happens and not only does
inflation not fall, but maybe [music]
starts to rise, we're going to see a
very, very different tone from the Fed.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Investors looking for signals on how
long the central bank will stay on hold
at what is likely to be JPAL's final
meeting as chair. Joining us now to
discuss is former Kansas City Fed
President Esther George. Esther, a warm
welcome back to the program as always.
At 2 p.m. Eastern time, we get a
decision. 30 minutes later, a news
conference. What are you expecting to
hear?
Well, good morning, Jonathan. I think um
it's clear the table is set for today's
meeting and the real question is not
will they move rates, it seems likely
they will remain on hold, but I think
the question is how will they describe
the outlook in this time of high
uncertainty? Will they lean into the
inflation issues that we've heard a
number of the FOMC members talk about?
uh will they think about two-sided risk
if you will to their mandates and of
course the other part of the discussion
people are leaning in very heavily on
trying to understand how the chairman
might be thinking about his future role
>> Eston none of that is normal that
particular that last point in particular
is not normal you know how this works
typically they move aside someone else
comes on board we move on with life why
is this moment so different
>> well because it's been wrapped up in a
bit of political fury, if you will. Uh,
the chairman has had
>> I think we've lost that line to Esther
George, the former Kansas City Fed
president on an important moment for the
future of the chairman of the Federal
Reserve.
>> That's so much she doesn't want to talk
about it. I mean, I think [laughter]
>> no one wants to talk about it.
>> I think that we should do that next time
you ask me about it. I'll just
>> freeze freeze Frank. [laughter]
>> Maybe you guys will, too. Ultimately,
it's a difficult moment because people
are used to talking about a difficult
economic moment that we're in. And
instead, we're having to sus out exactly
whether it is going to be important for
him to stay on, whether it will matter
to markets. Right now, the market seems
to be incredibly calm. She stopped and
the the shot was frozen. It was a
technical issue, but when she was
talking about political fury when it
comes to Jay Powell, and you know what
this is going to do, right? The
conspiracy theorists out there in
financial markets are going to be seeing
that and they're going to say there's a
reason why she was frozen.
>> The fact that we're even talking about
this as a problem. It's a big problem
and understand it's not just the
chairman's responsibility to handle this
issue. The blame lays at the feet of
this administration as well for
introducing this as even a conversation.
We've talked about this all year.
>> This could have been very
straightforward.
>> You've appointed your guy. Move on with
life. Kevin Walsh runs the Federal
Reserve. A new outlook for the central
bank. We're here because no one wanted
to take the offramp. They just kept
pursuing it, pursuing it, pursuing it.
And I've mentioned this a few times. 12
months ago when we were looking out one
year and we were thinking about what the
future of this conversation would look
like around the Federal Reserve. We were
talking about a shadow Fed share the
likes of a Kevin Walsh maybe getting
confirmed early. So we knew that he was
going to be there in the wings and that
was the ultimate story. This wasn't even
a consideration. The idea that Chairman
Power would stick around to 28 on the
board.
>> Part of the reason why we're talking
about this so much is President Trump is
a real estate guy. He's a real estate
developer. He wants rates lower and
we're dealing with a significant amount
of debt in this country and it is much
more beneficial for rates to be
significantly lower. How do you
accomplish that? increasingly becomes
the question in one supply chain shock
after another that really does uh
challenge the the discussion even though
we are having disinflation on other
measures. So it is a complicated
economic uh discussion that has been
brought into the mainstream by President
Trump and produced in utterly dramatic
fashion so that everybody can really
play a part in this bachelor fed style.
>> And he was fanning the flames throughout
the entire year and into this year. I
mean, I was in the Oval Office that
morning when there was reports that
maybe he was going to fire Jay Powell,
and that was really just mostly about
the fact they didn't think he was doing
a good job, less so even about what was
going on when it comes to the
refurbishment. Then they went to the
reurb. Remember, this was a uh president
who went to the Fed, sat behind with
alongside the chair looking at the all
the work that was being done so at the
Federal Reserve. So, there's been a lot
to this story. I believe we've
reestablished that connection and at
risk of offering any fuel to conspiracy
theories, I hope Esther George is still
with us. Esther, we want you to complete
your thoughts on the future of Chairman
Pound and why this moment is so
different.
>> Well, it's different, Jonathan, because
again, um we have not seen this kind of
political angst around a transition of
leadership in the way that we have uh
now. And of course this follows on a
long period of uh badgering of the Fed
about its interest rate stance. And so
it creates an environment right now that
is unusual.
Having said that though, the institution
I think is quite capable of carrying
forward during this transition. And
really, as I think about the committee
and what they're doing this morning, I
suspect they are squarely focused on the
economic challenges and deciding what
their stance of policy needs to be.
>> Couldn't agree more, Esther. It's good
to see you. My apologies that this one's
a bit of a short one. We'll get you back
on the schedule soon and we'll catch up.
the former Kansas City Fed President
Esther George on the future of this
institution and the focus on the Fed
later on this afternoon which
unfortunately is not just about policy,
the outlook, the economic challenges,
it's also about the future of the
chairman of the Federal Reserve.
>> I like what she did there. She said it's
a committee and she kept emphasizing the
committee and at what point do we have
that emphasis rather than on one person
who is the head of that committee but
ultimately is really held to the
consensus vote of 12 individuals.
>> Right. It's a deliberative body, which
is why people say, "Well, if Chair Pal
stays on, he's just one person." But at
the same time, he was the head of this
institution. So, if he stays on, doesn't
that make it a little bit more
complicated if Kevin Worsh comes in and
wants a quote unquote regime change?
>> I go back to two words, transparency and
finality. It doesn't really matter what
I think about any of this. I think the
chairman set up his own metric for
whether he can move on or not. He said
it needs to be wrapped up with
transparency and finality. And based on
that metric, based on that metric, I
believe where we are right now falls
short of that bar. So it' be interesting
to see how the chairman navigates that
later this afternoon.
>> Yeah, maybe you'll have a technical
difficulty and just freeze.
>> Just cut off the news conference.
[laughter]
>> Just everyone just has to leave. You
know, there different ways to handle
this.
>> True. Just pull the plug.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> Yeah. Okay. Let's hope they don't do
that because we're going to have quite a
long time to talk about nothing.
>> Yeah, that Okay. All right. [laughter]
Please don't do that. That's a terrible
option.
>> News conference 2:30 Eastern time. Don't
pull the plug. Okay. Our coverage starts
at 1:30. It wraps up several hours
later. Coming up on this program, Stuart
Kaiser of City, Schwikura of Wolf
Research, [music] Tom Porcelli of Wells
Fargo, the IAEA director general,
Raphael Gi. Looking forward to that in
the next hour of Bloomberg Surveillance.
The third hour just around [music] the
corner.
>> The market remains dependent on tech.
>> The capex figure is what you got to be
laser focused on. We're just really not
seeing the rest of the market able to
overtake that mag seven cohort. [music]
>> Tech breath is broadening across the
sector.
>> The technology genie comes out of the
[music] bottle. It never goes back in.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz,
[music] and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
And your scores, the price action looks
like this. Equity futures [music] on the
S&P 500 just about positive. On the
NASDAQ up by 0.3 in the commodity market
up again on Brend for [music] an eighth
consecutive session up by more than 3%
and just short of 115. Heading into this
day ahead. What a day ahead. Later on
this afternoon, a Federal Reserve
decision. 30 minutes later, a news
conference. [music] Then after the
close, these names right here, the
biggest companies on the planet reported
earnings. Alphabet, [music] Microsoft,
Amazon, Meta.
>> So, you've got your geopolitical crisis,
a question around how much the drip feed
[music] of higher oil prices are going
to torpedo the economy and perhaps drive
uh the hot war back into action. You've
got domestic drama with the Federal
Reserve. What is going to happen there?
Not necessarily with interest rates, but
with respect to the personnel. And then
corporate America really delivers the
bazooka which is how well are the big
tech names [music] doing given the fact
that they have driven the rally not only
in equities but in economic [music]
optimism.
>> Well, let's start with the geopolitics,
the squeeze in the Middle East and the
moves in crude. The Wall Street Journal
with this. The president instructing
[music] aids to prepare for an extended
blockade of Iran according to US
officials.
>> Blockade [music] in hopes that the
Iranians cave. That is what the
president is deciding to do. And if you
continue to read the Wall Street Journal
report, it goes on to [music] say that
the other options of either escalating
to start strikes again or deescalating,
basically just walking away and saying,
"We reached some of our targets. We're
now going to leave because we want we
don't want this impact on the oil
market." The president is not willing to
accept. [music]
So right now, I think the oil market is
starting to wake up to the fact that
we've already drawn down a number of
inventories and the president is serious
and the blockade is not ending right
now. And you can see that as well. What
is going on in the straight of Hermuzz?
What the Iranians are trying to do in
terms of putting any last [music]
barrel of oil somewhere to store
>> can see it through the pricing of the
futures curve. Lisa has been on top of
this all week. New highs for longdated
[music] contracts this morning at the
front end of the curve just several
dollars away from the highs of the year.
>> Yeah, you pointed out [music] the fact
that we all made such a big deal about
Goldman increasing their forecast to $90
a barrel at the end of the year. And
guess what? If you take a look at the
December [music] contract for Brent
crude, we're at 88. So to your point,
we're already there and yet people don't
seem to be [music] paying attention if
they're in the equity markets, at least
not on the index level. Is this a
boiling the frog moment where we reach a
point where suddenly the frog's dead?
And that ultimately is what people are
looking at even though it's not very
nice.
>> Stu, how do you feel? Welcome to the
program. [laughter]
>> The frog apparently.
Look,
>> a warm welcome to Bloomberg
surveillance, sir.
>> Definitely.
>> You take a beat. Coming up this hour,
Stuart Kaiser of City ahead of Mega Cap
Tech quarterly earnings. Tom Forcelli of
Wells Fargo previewing today's Fed
decision and the IAEA director general
Rafael Gci as US Iran talks stole over
Thran's nuclear program conversation
about nuclear war at the end of the
program with Bremo. So that should be
fun. All right, we begin this hour with
stocks edging higher as Wall Street
braces for a busy 48 hours. Stuart
Kaiser of City writing the following
tech stocks a price for large upside
moves. April 30th is effectively the
largest day for S&P 500 earnings since
2012. A warm welcome to you, Stu. A
proper welcome. It's good to see you,
buddy.
>> Thank you. It's good to be here.
>> We've been talking about your note
throughout the week. Lisa has these
slowmoving risks could turn what you say
is nonlinear if they persist. Are we
close to that tipping point?
>> I mean, it does feel like and our
commodity strategists think if this
lasts, you know, a couple more weeks,
you're at 110 bucks. And if it last call
it a month after that, you're at 130 on
on TI and that I think becomes a real
issue for equity markets. You know, I
think what equity markets have tried to
do is generally with the Middle East is
compartmentalize it. And as long as oil
doesn't tap us on the shoulder and say
you need to worry, we're just going to
trade AI and and be pretty, you know,
bullish, optimistic folks.
>> You feeling that tap just a little bit
more this week?
>> It's it's it's getting there. Um I think
it's very interesting because because of
the FOMC and because of large cap tech
earnings that's just dominating
conversation but we are getting the
incomeies of what do I focus on after
you know after Wednesday and Thursday
and if unfortunately what we're focusing
on is $120 of oil then then I think it
can become an issue for equity markets
at that point.
>> Is it a price level or is it a length of
time? Which one?
>> I I personally think it's a length of
time you know type issue. If you go back
to 2022, you had WTI above 100 bucks for
87 out of 102 trading days or something
on that order. And equity markets were
able to kind of survive that because the
long-term oil never really inflected. I
think you guys are hitting on the right
thing, which is if I'm looking at that
18 to 24month outlook as that creeps
higher, that that's where you get
worried. I do think this is definitely
an issue of time, especially now that
the kind of shooting has calmed down a
little bit.
>> Not to ask you to have a crystal ball,
but how long? because people were saying
back at the beginning and John and
Amarie have been talking about this a
couple of weeks now we're two months in
and suddenly the blockade's going to be
even there uh longer at what point does
it really hit that trigger where all of
a sudden people say wait a second we're
going to go back to focusing on that
>> look I I think the issue is or at the
beginning of this I think the
administration was very cognizant of
trying to keep oil contained right you
know they were allowing Iran to export
they took the tariffs off of some of the
the Russian exports etc now it seems
like they're sort going the other way a
little bit because the goal of the
blockade is to shut this in. I actually
agree with the block blockade in the
sense that it's sort of nonviolent
escalation. And I think that's where
where President Trump probably wants to
be. So now it's just it's a waiting
game. You know, does do they fill, you
know, Amy's next cup up with oil because
they run [laughter] out of storage and
and they have to kind of give in or do
you get to a position where, you know,
oil prices get so high and and you get
start to worry about election and and US
consumer risk and stuff like So do you
think the market is waking up to the
more escalatory nature with the blockade
or what OFAC did just yesterday going
after more teapotss in China than they
are actually the physicality of what is
going on?
>> Yeah, again I think it's the equity
markets are more than happy to ignore
this until oil prices inflect and the
fact that we're not watching you know
bombs falling in the overnight gives us
us as equity investors even more freedom
to do that. So again, this is a time
issue and I think at some point oil is
not going to go, you know, 105, 106,
108. It's probably going to go 105, 115
or something like that. And that's where
I think it becomes a real issue for
equity investors.
>> When do you think that happens?
>> I mean, if you believe our, you know,
our commodity strategist, you're you're
two to four weeks out from that. But to
be fair, to Lisa's point, two to four
weeks ago, we might have said the same
thing. So it could also be that in in
these times of stress, you know, people
find a little bit extra oil to squeeze
out of things, right? You know, maybe
you're running at 100% max production.
Maybe you're running at 110% max
production. I a production level you
can't sustain indefinitely, but you can,
you know, sustain for a short period of
time. So, could be we're squeezing a
little more juice out of it than we
thought we had.
>> You're not a bear. It's worth pointing
that out.
>> You're not a bear. You are actually
looking at this quite bullishly at the
moment. What underpins that bullish
view?
>> Uh the fundamentals. I think that's
really what it boils down to. like any
of these risks whether it's the economic
data or or the Iran stuff if you had
earnings turning over in the US would be
red and there would be a much different
reaction function. So I think you know
that that's the key you know to me is
one this has been a little bit slower
moving and two you have very strong sort
of earnings fundamentals underpinning
things which is why I think if there's
one thing that worries me is actually
the NFIB and the UMIS surveys last month
that just showed sentiment under so much
pressure because the longer this last
you know even though oil hasn't
reinflected gasoline's at a four-year
high so the refined products that that
really impact consumer spending are kind
of you know giving you that stress
>> I really struggle with you Mitch so just
convert me if you can. [laughter] The
idea that things have never been worse
since the late '7s,
>> that consumers have never felt worse. I
just struggle with that.
>> I understand that things are bad now and
it's difficult for a lot of households
without a doubt and I'm not undermining
that. Just to say that things are worse
now than GFC than all the other things
we've been through in the last 40 to 50
years. I struggle with that. Do you?
>> Yeah, I struggle with it as well though.
I think like the GFC was maybe a little
too complicated uh you know for some
people whereas price of gas is like an
immediate hit in the face. Also, if you
look at split by political party, you
know, you kind of see there there's also
a huge political aspect in there as
well. So, do I think we're the worst
ever? No. But when I see both small
businesses and those sentiment surveys
both turning lower, again, this is a
warning sign as opposed to something
that is an issue now. But, you know, if
you keep sentiment in under pressure for
three or four more months, I think then
you start to worry about what's going
on. And it's also what gets you there.
to get sentiment that negative, you
probably need oil and gasoline prices
high for an extended period of time. And
I guarantee you the Fed is not going to
be happy about that, you know, if that's
the outcome.
>> So, geopolitical uh concerns, earnings,
it brings us to the Fed. Do you care at
all about what happens later this
afternoon?
>> Hopefully not. And I I don't think Well,
[laughter]
I I don't think the Fed wants us to,
right? Honestly, I I think
>> never want us to.
>> Tune in 1:30 Eastern time. Thank you,
[laughter] Street. Go on.
>> See See Well, you can see if I'm wrong
at 1:30. But I would say that like
they're going to probably keep with the
forecast uncertainty very high line. You
know, the the the worst nomination is
sort of back on track and I think the
Fed, you know, gun to their head would
probably just say we want to get through
this without too much commotion. The
press conference will be interesting. I
thought the press conference was a
little more loosey goosey last time, you
know, maybe than it has been in the
past. So, we'll definitely be turning
out to that and watching every minute of
it. But, I imagine the the statement,
etc. will be they'll try to keep that
right down the middle.
>> So far, the chairman's future is a
non-event for financial markets. Seems
to be the event for Fed watchers. Is
that something we need to reconcile? Do
you think becomes a market event? Uh,
you know, it's hard for me to see it
becoming a market event. If you assume
that the that the DOJ charges kind of go
away, then, you know, whether he stays
on for another year or two, I I mean, I
I'm not sure that that that's like a
major issue unless it creates some sort
of rift within the Fed, which seems
unlikely. I look Wars is a respected
economist. He's worked at the Fed
before. He respects the institution. So
I wouldn't expect that to be the issue.
I mean if you know if pillow fights are
breaking out at the Fed between Palor,
you know, maybe a different a different
story, but [laughter] like generally
speaking, no, I wouldn't expect it to be
a huge issue.
>> Stuart, it's good to see you.
>> Good to see you, too.
>> This was fun. Thank you, buddy. Thank
you very much. Stuart Kaiser of City on
the Federal Reserve later on this
afternoon. that news conference could be
spicy on the future of Fed share and
also I think most importantly where we
are in this economy and the outlook for
policy and the changes we could expect
in the next 12 months.
>> Yeah, right now that is a huge
uncertainty. You're talking about the
University of Michigan survey and how
negative it seemed. And then yesterday
we got the Conference Board consumer
confidence number that came out way
above expectations. So pick your poison
and try to interpret what this economic
uh data really looks like.
>> It's a difficult moment. Looking forward
to the news conference 2:30 Eastern
time. Coverage starts at 1:30. Don't
listen to Stu. Tune in for that. At 2
p.m. we get that interest rate decision.
Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Fonnie has more. Hey,
Fonnie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. The White House is
working on dialing down its feud with AI
giant Anthropic. [music] Axios reporting
the US is developing new guidance that
would allow agencies to get around
anthropic supply chain risk status
[music]
and begin onboarding its new model,
Mythos.
Starbucks shares are up almost 5% in the
pre-market. The company lifting its
fullear guidance thanks to a strong
rebound in the US that helped offset
[music] slower growth in China. The
results suggest CEO Brian Nichols's
turnaround plan is gaining traction.
Billionaire Bill Aman's Persing Square
pricing a combined IPO of Persing Square
USA and its hedge fund management
company Persian Square Inc. in a dual
listing expected to raise $5 billion.
The two securities will begin trading on
the NYSE today. And that is your
Bloomberg brief. John. [music]
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. More from Vonnie
in about 30 minutes time. Up next, the
morning calls plus Juria of Wolf
Research saying Wall Street is
underestimating capex [music] spend
heading into earnings. We'll get to that
conversation in just a moment. Live from
New York City this morning. Good
morning.
When you just kind of look at, you know,
what these companies are at least going
to do in Q1, I don't see any sort of
major tick up in terms of cap X budgets.
That could change as we go into the
second half of this year. a company like
Medit well outpacing the industry
largely because of that AI contribution
and what they're delivering um from an
AI perspective to you know the the ad
community
>> a huge afternoon for tech earnings
coming up later on this afternoon that
and pillow fights at the Federal Reserve
[laughter] according to Stuart Kaiser
over a city
>> why pillow
>> I don't know
maybe it's not it's not that violent
which I like I like that sentiment
please
>> it looks like this futures just about
unchanged on the S&P 500 positive on the
NASDAQ by 210 of 1% on the Russell up by
0.2. Let's get you some morning calls.
First up, JP Morgan lowering [music] its
price target on booking holdings
following earnings, citing the impact of
the Middle East conflict on travel
demand. That name is down some 4%. Your
second call from City raising its price
target on UPS after its first quarter
results, seeing the sell off [music] in
shares yesterday as an overreaction.
That name is up by only a quarter of 1%.
And finally, BMP Paraba initiating
coverage of Alibaba with an outperform
rating expecting cloud revenue growth to
accelerate. [music] That name is up by a
little more than 1%. Elsewhere, four of
the biggest companies on the planet
reporting earnings after the closing bow
this afternoon with a preview. Ed Lllo
has more. Good morning, Ed. Uh good
morning, John. We're bracing for earn
mageddon and capital expenditures is
still the swing factor for the market.
But probably given the Wall Street
Journal reporting on on OpenAI missing
financial metrics and the market of the
last two days, more than ever, Wall
Street is looking for evidence of ROI.
They want to see that capital
expenditures is followed by boosted
forward guidance and tangible revenue
growth. And and that's the dynamic of
this market. It is an AI story. But if
you think about how markets have behaved
since the March bottom, take the S&P 500
or the NASDAQ 100. If you strip out
Nvidia, it is those four names that have
been the big drivers um of the
multiconsecutive records that we've seen
in recent weeks. So, so that's the
story. You know, each of them has a
comparable metric in capex. Meta does
not have the cloud growth for us to
track, but that is where we will look
after 4 p.m. Eastern time today.
Armageddon getting Bremo excited at
Armageddon this afternoon. Bremo.
>> Sorry, I couldn't hear anything. Earned
>> eared.
Nagedon.
I wonder how long I wonder how long it
took. [laughter]
I'm pleased to brought that up. Really?
Please brought that up.
>> Didn't know what I was looking for this
afternoon. Ed, thank you, buddy. That
conversation goes later in the show.
>> Looking forward to the coverage. That's
later. Yes. That's quite the promo for
the IAEA. later on this afternoon this
morning. Let's hope we just get earned.
>> Okay. Yeah, I didn't hear that at all.
All right.
>> Yeah, I thought that that was
>> okay. Kajura, Wolf Research writing the
following. We expect 2027 capex for mega
caps to increase 25 to 30%
yearover-year. Schwetta joins us now for
more. Schwer, welcome to the program. We
had a conversation earlier on this
morning about maybe entering a new phase
for capex. Are you expecting an increase
from here later on this afternoon?
>> Well, first of all, thanks for having
me. Uh, as far as this year goes, I'm
not sure if we'll expect a material
raise in capex for 2026. In part, it's
because the guidance that each of these
companies gave, 200 billion for uh
Amazon and 175 to 185 billion for
Alphabet, for example, uh we think uh
accounted for a good level of
conservatism, but it does there is a
risk if there is one. It's cues to the
upside in terms of raising capex. Our
point really was as these contracts are
up for renewal and we think about 2027.
We've seen 100% increase in
year-over-year pricing for storage as
well as memory and that's going to flow
through and that is what we think the
street is underestimating when we think
about next year's capex.
>> Is this a good increase or a bad
increase in capex if it's tied to higher
costs? I mean, how is it going to be
received by markets? Well, capex
increase has been negatively viewed by
the market in part because now despite
the very attractive free cash flow
generating profile for each of these
mega caps at least within the internet
space, it is in question and the
question is whether Meta and Amazon and
Google will need to raise more net
capital in order to support this level
of demand uh by investing in capex. So I
think that it's going to be viewed
negatively unless we see some material
inflection in their topline growth and
that is something that we may see at AWS
as well as Google cloud.
>> Is this something where we're going to
get a sense of the winners and the
losers at this point? You talk about AWS
and Google in the cloud space but also
when it comes to the AI space given the
report yesterday from open about open AI
in the Wall Street Journal suggesting
that Gemini is really taking a lot of
share. Well, part of the reason why when
a lot of the AI names yesterday pulled
back, we did not see a major pullback in
Alphabet shares. And it and part of that
is because Google is fully vertically
integrated with their own chips, with
their own cloud service as well as with
their own Gemini model and that is a
huge advantage that Alphabet has. And so
if the consumerdriven app in the form of
GPT is not meeting its metrics then the
structural headwind on Google search is
also mitigated and at the same time the
hyperscaler cloud business is also up
for a a good level of acceleration with
margin expansion. So we do think that
will be a positive for Google.
>> So Schwa who do you think is winning
that race right now? Is it Google Gemini
as opposed to OpenAI and Anthropic? Well
actually anthropic we do think that they
are uh ahead when we think of their most
recent models. Uh we think that they are
doing arguably better than most other
industryleading models especially in
security um and coding for enterprises.
So Anthropic is really uh firing on all
cylinders and when we think about their
annualized revenue run rate they're now
you know 30 billion plus and who knows
by the end of the year it'll be
significantly higher on on a run rate
basis. So we do think that Google and
Anthropic are doing fairly well and at
the same time Amazon is also narrowing
that gap especially in their tranium
chips against TPUs and GPUs and they're
catching up fairly quickly and we'll see
hopefully 30% plus growth rate in AWS in
the first quarter uh reported later this
afternoon.
>> John has brought this up a lot when it
comes to the likes of Anthropic and
OpenAI. Is some of this just trying to
generate buzz ahead of blockbuster IPOs
or or do you think these models are real
and going to really change our realities
in the future?
>> The latter think that some there is a
lot of um potential in these models and
what we may see is that so far there is
a little bit of a lag from a lot of
enterprises that are talking about the
promise of being able to cut costs
within their organizations. But we
haven't seen much of that yet despite
the adoption of coding etc. So headcount
growth will not only moderate but we may
see a lot more of headcount cuts that
could be coming that could drive down to
the profitability. So is that a good
thing at a macro level where
unemployment rate could rise? I'm not
sure where the balance will shake out
eventually but for on a profitability
perspective for a lot of enterprises we
may see a a pretty good boost in terms
of productivity and profits. We've got a
massive afternoon coming up. Thanks for
making time for us this morning. Thank
you. We appreciate it. Thank you Jury
there of Wolf Research. Let's talk about
the open AI piece in the Wall Street
Journal. This is really central. I think
it's the epicenter, the foundations of
the ultimate bare case. The bubble view
that you have a company that will fall
short of growth that has made massive
spending commitments which will lead to
a huge misallocation of resources and
over capacity. That was the push back we
got from the likes of Coreweave in their
own statement yesterday which is we
continue to see demand exceed supply
across the AI ecosystem. That's the push
back you're going to hear repeatedly
>> and they have other customers as well
that OpenAI is not their sole customer.
This is the key point that even if say
OpenAI is overinvested and might have
too many commitments, how many other
players are there out there willing to
take up those s those assets at the same
prices? And that I think is reason why a
lot of people are saying even if OpenAI
hits a soft patch, it isn't going to
cause some sort of implosion in this
particular industry,
>> right? Because there's so many other
good models out there when it comes to
Google Gemini, everyone that talks about
mythos and anthropic. Interesting point
though, Jonathan, you brought up
yesterday, not just the fact that OpenAI
can't reach their internal targets, but
when it comes to this IPO, the fact that
maybe it's actually not as good, they
can't reach their IPO, do they just get
swallowed up potentially by someone
else?
>> I've got no idea what happens here. And
the growth numbers can change just as
quickly. And I've mentioned this example
of Alphabet repeatedly throughout this
morning. You come out with a new model,
things can change very, very fast. But
let's just sort of run with where we are
right now with this company. If they
fall short, is the risk less ex
existential for the alphabets, for the
Microsofts of this world when they say
right now the greater risk is
underinvesting and not overinvesting. Is
a lot of that because of what they see
as an upcoming threat coming from
elsewhere, from open AI, from Anthropic,
and how would their view of those risks
on the horizon change if that company
went away? Is there an existential
threat because of the competition from
some particular players who are
hoovering up everything that they can
find to try to make sure that they have
the biggest footprint possible or is
this an existential threat because this
is going to be the business model ahead
and if they don't reach some sort of you
know intelligence that is beyond then
they're going to fall behind, right? Is
it sort of an existential we don't know
what we're going toward but we're going
to try to keep building this tower to
the sky or is this something that has a
tangible kind of endpoint with a
practical business application that they
can see uh with respect to their
customer demand.
>> These earnings calls could be very very
interesting later on this afternoon.
Coming up next we'll talk about the
data. A fresh round of economic data set
to cross. We'll speak to Tom Pori of
Wells Fargo. He's with us to break it
down and look ahead to a Federal Reserve
interest rate decision later on this
afternoon. that decision [music] at 2
p.m. the news conference at 2:30. Into
it, the price action looks like this.
Equity futures just about unchanged on
the S&P 500. The NASDAQ bouncing back by
0.3%. Getting our attention once again,
this [music] move in crude up by 3% on
Brent, just short of 115, an 8day
winning streak for Brent crude, the
longest since May of 2022. And with that
push higher in the oil market, this in
fixed income yields up again [music] two
basis points higher at the front end of
the curve 386. From New York City,
you're watching Bloomberg TV.
60 minutes out from the open and pal.
The cash open just around the corner.
Economic data dropping in about 20
seconds time. Equity futures into there
just about unchanged on the S&P [music]
500. Positive on the NASDAQ by 0.2 in
the bond market tracking the long end of
the curve very close to the highs of the
year with 30s at about 495. And the
front end of the curve with yields
pushing [music] higher over the past few
sessions up another two basis points
this morning. Let's round it up 386.
With that economic data, Mike McKe has
more. Good morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. It's not quite
ecomageddon, but it is a lot of numbers
this morning. Uh durable goods orders up
8/10en of a percent. That's a strong
number. X transportation up 9/10. So
that tells me off the top without
looking at the details, this is not just
a Boeing story this time. Capital goods
orders, non-defense xair were up 3.3%
after a 710 rise the month before. So a
lot of strength in durables today. a
suggestion that maybe AI is really
strong. We'll take a look at uh what the
breakdown of the numbers are. Uh the
advanced goods trade balance is wider
than expected. Comes in at 87.9
billion for the month of March with
imports up 3.3% after 5.1% in February.
That suggests still strength in the
economy pulling goods in. Uh exports
were up 2 and a.5%. That's down from the
5.9% we saw in February. And then
finally, we've got housing starts. They
are down uh on the uh they are up on the
month by 10.8%.
Could that be weather or could it be
just more uh confidence from builders
out there 1,52,000
uh pace for the year? Uh it is building
permits that were down 10.8%. So, all in
all, a fairly strong report suggesting
some strength in the economy which may
have some implications for the Fed going
forward.
>> Mike, looking forward to the Federal
Reserve later this afternoon. You of
course will be in the room in that news
conference. Do you think it's
problematic that we're spending more
time talking about the chairman's future
than we are about the economy and the
future for policy?
>> Not really. And I've said that uh we
probably I wouldn't be surprised, put it
this way, if the first question to JP
pal wasn't what's your future plans
because we know the Fed isn't going to
do anything now. They are sidelined as
are pretty much central banks around the
world waiting to see what happens with
oil prices with the war and don't forget
we've got tariffs coming down the road.
So there's a lot of uncertainty about
where the economy is going and
strengthen the US economy just
strengthens the Fed's hand, their
ability to sit on the sidelines. Uh we
are going to watch today to see if they
say there is a two-sided risk. They've
been worried about in uh unemployment as
the major risk. Are they going to
elevate inflation to that level today
when they put out their statement? Uh
and of course we've got the Worsh
confirmation vote today. uh after he's
uh basically confirmed by the committee,
then he has to go to the floor, but he
will be confirmed there. Do do people
care what Jay Powell thinks about where
the economy is going from here, or does
the focus immediately shift to Worsh
that may be answered by what Powell says
about how long he's going to stay on the
committee?
>> That is very true, Mike. Thank you.
Looking forward to your coverage later
on this afternoon. Mike McKe of course
will break that down that decision and
it'll be in that news conference at 2:30
Eastern time with us around the table
Tom Porcelli of Wells Fargo. Tom, good
morning.
>> Hi.
>> Do you agree with the take from Mike
McKe that it is not that problematic
that we're talking more about the
chairman's future than we are about
policy in the economy?
>> I love that you set it up that way. Um
so look, here we are with this massive
tension right in the dual mandate. And I
I I would bet that the very first
question that he gets asked today at the
presser is about whether he's staying or
going. And I think when you have this
kind of tension uh and you're asking
that question first. Yeah, I do. I think
it's a distraction. And and so what I
would what I would say is I think it's
actually incumbent on Pal to sort of
highlight well if he is going to stay
why um something more more clear because
I think I thought we resolved part of
this already, right? I got I thought
part of the reason was the indictment.
Well, if that's now off the table, uh,
then why would you stay? Because I think
the risk is that he doesn't give us
enough information and then it becomes a
question of, oh, what does he know that
we don't? And then it becomes even more
of a distraction. So, I think he really
has to thread a needle here on this.
>> Do you think it introduces a dependency
issue for markets? Because right now, I
don't see one in the way markets are
priced.
>> So, I think look, I I think what I think
what markets want is just to get on with
this. I think they want to know what the
sort of you know what the next meeting
looks like. You know, is Walsh there and
is it also with Powell as a big shadow
cast over him? Uh I think I think what
markets actually want is clarity.
>> Not to be a little bit flipped, but do
you think we're focusing on this?
Because right now there's not that much
more to say about the Fed.
>> Uh you know, so I would actually say um
I'm I like being flipped too. Um
[laughter]
but what I I I would argue that there is
so much to talk about uh because when
you think about the inflation dynamic
that's in play right now uh and the
degree to which the Fed is going to
focus on that when you think about the
labor backdrop right like I I wrote this
in in our daily yesterday I would be
stunned if if someone asks him about the
labor backdrop when I think that there's
a lot of tension in the labor backdrop
too. Uh so no I I actually think that
there's a lot to focus on and I think
that this is acting as a big
distraction. The reason why I say that
is because the Fed doesn't have control
over most of what is causing some of
these economic disruptions. We're
talking about oil prices rising in the
Middle East. That's clearly out of their
control. We're talking about an
employment market that might be as
affected by artificial intelligence as
anything else. Again, what's the Fed
going to do about that? So, how much
does it really matter where the Fed
sits? Aren't they just sort of sitting
there being a receiver of all the
incoming information rather than a
setter? It's such an important idea and
what I would say is, you know, the Fed
in a lot of ways will set the tone on
this. I mean, I don't think that they
could just be a passive, you know, sort
of listener of what's happening. I think
they actually have to be an active
engager of, hey, you know, this is how
we're thinking about we how we might
want to um react to this. And by the
way, if the reaction is, hey, we're just
going to sit on the sidelines and wait
and see how this unfolds, that's fine.
Um, but I think that that messaging
actually needs to be clear.
>> So then, do they come out a little bit
hawkish?
>> No, I think that they're supposed to be
as I mean, they are supposed to be as
balanced as possible. Uh because I do
think so from our perspective when you
think about this inflation dynamic, I
think Lisa's spot on. This is a supply
shock. There's literally nothing the Fed
can do about that. But I think on the
labor side of the mandate, I think that
there's actually a lot that they
actually um I think should be a little
bit more worried about. I mean, the
underbelly of labor, I think, is softer
than most people appreciate. And that
for us, if you can find this exit ramp,
which I think the administration wants
to do sort of sooner than later. Um, if
you can find that exit ramp, I think
that actually would clear the way for
the Fed to be able to ease policy later
in the year. Um, but so much has to go
right between now and then. And I think
that's the conversation that the Fed is
supposed to be having.
>> So, you think the Fed still has a cut
potentially this year when Kevin Walsh
comes in? Yes. and he's going to use the
labor market as his
>> by by the way I mean again to Lisa's uh
observation on AI we just wrote a note
on this uh just this week actually we
think that AI is having a marginal
impact at best at this point on the
labor backdrop um so when I hear um the
argument of hey by the way we're going
to be able to cut because AI is going to
usher in disinflation I don't disagree
with that as an idea I disagree with the
the timing the the time it's not going
to happen anytime soon um so your best
argument for cutting this year is the
labor backdrop.
>> It's funny you say that. It was hardly
mentioned in the hearing with Kevin
Walsh. The focus was almost solely on
the other side of the mandate. Why do
you think that is?
>> Well, because I think because I think at
the end of the day, when you think about
inflation, it is a significant um issue
for for for Main Street, right? That is
just the reality. Um when you think
about the people that are sort of, you
know, asking the questions, they're
going to want to make sure that the Main
Street folks are covered in that regard.
And I think that's why that actually
came up more um than even the labor
side. In fact, I would say it was far
more than the labor side. Although I
would, as I've been arguing, I think we
need to focus on labor.
>> Mike McKe tracking the data. Mike, I
know you've got more. What do you see?
>> Well, I broke down the durable goods
orders, and it is really interesting.
There is a huge jump in equipment that
one would assume is made for AI and AI
data centers. Computers and electronic
products were up 3.7%
the orders numbers, after 1.3% the month
before. communications equipment up 3%.
Uh so we are seeing some strength in
that area and this comes as uh
non-defense aircraft orders were up by
uh were down rather by uh 21%. So it
isn't a Boeing story. We did see an
increase of 16.9% in defense aircraft
orders which would also include things
like missiles etc. So the war having an
impact there but Boeing didn't carry
this one. It is the AI economy that
seems to be moving the needle here.
>> MK, thank you. We've seen that
repeatedly, Brahmo. Repeatedly.
>> Yeah, this is this is the tension that I
have. How do you deal with the fact that
people say that the labor market could
get hit by AI? This is all hypothetical.
We don't know if it's going to be
disinflationary. We don't know how much
it's going to cause unemployment to
surge. At the same time that the capital
markets are wide open to finance all of
these purchases for all of this AI
equipment, even at higher prices,
because people view it as existential.
So that's where the inflationary aspect
goes in with really mixed signals from
the employment market. I mean it's a
conundrum wrapped in a I know where
you're going. Don't worry.
>> Yeah, whatever. [laughter] Carry on.
>> So we should build on this. Can you walk
me through how your conversations with
clients are going at the moment because
I'm just thinking about the future and
whether non-farm payrolls, which was
like tier one economic data for
financial markets and setting the tone
for risk assets, whether it becomes less
relevant.
>> Yeah, I think right now it is less
relevant. I mean the you know if if I
would order the things that we're
talking about with clients is basically
the Iran conflict how that's going to
impact the uh the the backdrop inflation
obviously on the back of that AI is
coming up in virtually every meeting
even by the way in the very early stages
of the Iran conflict people still found
time to ask about AI I mean it was
coming up relentlessly which is why when
I hear Mike McKe say hey capex crushed
it yeah that makes a lot of sense I mean
I think you know Q2 and Q3 we actually
have capex performing incredibly well um
so I think in terms of focus It makes a
lot of sense what clients are focused
on, right? It's how is Iran going to
impact the inflationary backdrop and
what is and and what is the Fed's
reaction function to that? And our
answer is the same and it's been the
same for the last month and a half. The
Fed is going to sit on the sidelines
because there's nothing they can do
about a supply shock.
>> We're told repeatedly that the labor
market simply isn't strong enough to
generate broad-based price pressure in
its economy. Do you agree with that?
>> I 100% agree with that. I think, you
know, when when we heard this
conversation about the Fed, you know,
hiking rates. Um that was a for us that
was an immediate feat. To be able to
actually hike rates, you would need a
demand shock to come into play, right?
You would need some kind of wage price
spiral dynamic. And how would you get
there? The way that you get there is if
there's some additional new fiscal
stimulus, not the stuff that's already
in tow in the back of tax refunds. You
need something new, I think, to really
sort of put not just a floor underneath
inflation, but to elevate inflation. So
if they introduced a more symmetrical
reaction function later on, at least
communicated one or attempted to, would
you dismiss that? Look through it.
>> I I actually have I actually have a lot
of sympathy for that because I do think
at the end of the day that they they
still need to defend their credibility
as it relates to inflation. Uh and so in
that context, I have sympathy for it.
>> Tom, it's good to see you. Appreciate
it. Thank you, sir. Tom Porcelli there
of Wells Fargo on the Federal Reserve,
that interest rate decision later on
this afternoon with an update on stories
worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Vonnie Quinn has more.
Hey, Vonnie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. So recapping the
data we just got, the US trade deficit
coming in in line with estimates at
$87.9 billion in March. US orders for
business equipment increasing by the
most since 2020. [music]
The big surprise was in housing starts.
They were up nearly 11% compared to
estimates that called for a drop of4%.
United Airlines and Lyft are teaming
[music] up. Starting today, United
Mileage Plus members can use their miles
to pay for rides. This is the first time
an airline loyalty program and ride
share platform have offered direct
mileto- ride redemption in the United
States.
In sports, the San Antonio Spurs are
moving on to the second round of the
playoffs after beating the Portland
Trailblazers in five games. [music]
Philadelphia defeated Boston to force a
game six at home. And the New York
Knicks are one win away from the next
round after beating Atlanta by nearly 30
[music] points in game five. And that is
your Bloomberg brief. John,
>> you're happy with that?
126 to 97. [music] Okay.
>> Incredible game.
>> Was this a s Celsius morning? Is that
what that was this morning?
>> No, I had uh what did someone say? I
have crude oil in my [laughter]
morning. That's where we're at right
now.
>> Up late at the game last night. Just
about holding it together. All right. Up
next on the program, the IAEA director
general Raphael GCI as US Iran talks
stall over Tehran's nuclear program.
Plus, we'll catch up with you. She's got
your morning movers. Blue man energy
soaring after eyeing a massive growth
pathway. That name is up by 18% [music]
in the pre-market.
I would love to see everybody [music]
say things that are in line with what
everyone is expecting. I'd love to see
everything come in in a way that calms
everybody down post the AI stories.
Everyone is looking to make sure that
this growth is still as strong as it has
been. And the bigger you get and the
larger the numbers get, the harder that
becomes.
>> That was Sarah Hunt of Alpine Saxon.
Words on the program a little bit early
this morning. Going into the opening bow
44 minutes away. Your price action
shaping up as follows. Equity futures on
the S&P just about unchanged, bouncing
back on the NASDAQ higher by [music]
0.25%.
Let's get you some single names, some
morning movers. Yahira has more. Hi
Yhara.
>> Hi John. Ahead of tech earnings, this is
the power story. Shares of Bloom Energy
soaring [music]
nearly 19% in the pre-market as demand
for power tied to AI data centers
[music] ramps up fast, helping the
company deliver a beat and a raise.
Analysts taking notice, raising their
price targets. Moving on to Etsy, the
online marketplace. Shares are up more
than 7% in the pre-market after it gave
a better forecast [music] than expected.
And that's because customers are
spending more per transaction. And we
end on shares of SoFi Technologies.
They're plunging uh 8 and a.5% in the
pre-market. [music] And this is really a
cost story because other than that, the
company delivered strong growth across
the board on [music] both revenue and
membership, but expenses jumped more
than expected. John
>> Yara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
Great word this morning. Let's count it
[music] down to just an amazing 24
hours. Look at the diary. The Canada
shaping up as follows. Later this
morning at 10:00 [music] a.m., a Senate
Banking Committee vote on Kevin Walsh.
Later on this afternoon at 2 p.m.
[music] we get a Federal Reserve
interest rate decision. 30 minutes later
a news conference. Then earnings from
Microsoft, [music] Amazon, Meta,
Alphabet and then tomorrow we hear from
Apple.
>> This is really the blockbuster week and
today is the blockbuster day. So stay
tuned. We'll be here all day.
>> Looking forward to it. Right. 13.
>> You sticking around for that 1:30.
>> We're not calling that blue book [music]
decides.
I'm going to uh tune in from home.
>> Someone didn't sleep last night. All
right, let's turn to the war in Iran.
President Donald Trump reportedly
gearing up for a prolonged blockade of
[music] Iranian ports. Peace talks on
hold with the future of Thran's nuclear
program remaining the key sticking
point. The IAEA Director General Rafael
GCI warning that any new deal that
doesn't guarantee the AY's monitoring on
the ground will quote have an illusion
of an agreement. Director Grossy joins
us now for more. Director, good morning.
Good to see you.
>> Hello. Good morning. Welcome to New York
and thanks for spending some time with
us this morning. I've got a simple
question, one I think a lot of people
are thinking about. Do we know where the
uranium actually is at the moment?
>> We knew and we think we know. Uh the
most of the uh this stockpile was for
the most part in a big nuclear compound
which is called Isvahan near the the the
city of Isvahan. Uh it was there. it was
um stocked there um at the time of the
12 day war last year. So it is it is
believed that there is the consensus of
uh of the community is that it is it is
still there. Um even the Iranians have
said that it it is so um yeah that's the
situation.
>> Is there any enriched uranium above
ground that the Iranians could access
and if so at what enrichment level?
Well, there could be some amounts on in
in another on another site which is
called Natans. Um, and but I think both
even the the the uh the underground and
the above ground which is a smaller
quantity is is would be accessible in
case there was a real a wish to to to be
there to go there.
>> So what do you think the appropriate
solution should be? Is is is there an
off-ramp where maybe some of this could
be moved to a third party country? Well,
you know, there is a negotiation. So, um
it is for those negotiating to determine
what they want or what they can achieve
together in the in this process. It is
of course uh clear that the issue of
this material must be addressed some way
or another. Uh and there are different
alternatives that have been um
considered um shipping it out, down
blending it. So it is for them uh to to
decide the fact that there is this
material um is is uh is a fact. It is uh
for for them to decide. The IEA what the
IEA needs to know is that this material
is not being diverted. It is accounted
for and we can check where this is.
>> Does the IA have an idea of what
survived in terms of centrifuges? How
many when it comes to the USIsraeli
attack? Not exactly because we haven't
been able to return there. However, we
know these places very very well. We
know the different characteristics of
the buildings and we know the kind of
kinetic uh force that was used there. We
do have satellite imagery. So we we have
a pretty good idea of what might be
might still be there.
>> We have a ceasefire. Is it part of the
negotiations, the talks? Have you asked
to get access to these sites to get your
inspectors back in?
>> Well, I will put it yeah, more or less I
will put it slightly differently. It is
uh the idea is that when there is an
agreement, one essential component of
that agreement is that whatever is uh
agreed is inspectable, verifiable.
Introduction you were quoting um
something I said that you know an
agreement without verification is an
illusion of an agreement. It's a
promise. Who knows?
>> So you're I know you've been in touch
with Steve Wickoff, Jared Kushner. Have
you seen or spoken to President Trump as
well as the Iranian side?
>> I've been working with with special
envoy Ambassador Witkov and with Dr.
Kushner. Yes.
>> Are you closer to getting them back at
the table?
>> To getting whom to the table?
>> The Iranians and the Americans back at
the table
>> to a certain extent. There is a table.
Uh and they have this table, you know,
it's got it's on and off. Um but there
is a a conversation. Yeah.
>> Have you returned to Iran since February
28th?
>> Myself or well the inspectors the IEA?
Yes. Partially though partially because
we have been able to return to the
places that were not attacked.
>> Right. So the Iranians are making our
return contingent to an agreement.
How much are you concerned that this
episode will only reignite nuclear
aspirations around the world in
countries that see the success of North
Korea and frankly the success of Iran at
least in the threat potentially to fend
off this type of attack again should
they actually acquire a nuclear weapon.
>> I've heard that and that is an argument
that um I I frankly disagree with and
I'll tell you why. you we've seen that
all the commotion and even war
destruction and misery uh proliferation
attempts bring you see this and I'm not
saying whether he was justified or not
I'm just telling you uh uh see this and
let's go back in history let's let's
let's go to Iraq let's go to Syria let's
go to Libya every time there has been
one of these attempts to to get to
nuclear weapon uh or weapons so much
destruction for that matter. There has
been uh a problem. There have been wars.
There have been u there has there has
been death and destruction.
>> At the same time in Bloomberg today,
there was a big story about how North
Korea is actually accelerating its
production of nuclear weapons and
potentially is on track to have one of
the biggest stockpiles out there and
potentially could overwhelm any kind of
counter measures in the region. I mean
at what point do you expect to see more
of this considering that there are
nations that would like to immunize
themselves from these?
>> We cannot exclude it. I mean you have a
point. We cannot excluded. The case of
the DPRK, I mean they proliferated in
2006.
So 20 years ago, almost 20 years ago,
they decided to cross the line. They
they tested they expelled uh the IAEA
inspectors. a little bit later I must
say because it's a it's a story that has
lots of ups and downs and processes not
dissimilar in a certain sense with what
is being attempted with Iran incentives
uh of of of sorts and then at some point
that country in a different geopolitical
geographical
scenario decided to to cross the line
>> North Korea precisely the situation
we're hoping to avoid in Iran. Well,
exactly. And right now they seem to be
amping up the stakes considering that
there's a report about how much more
they have in terms of their nuclear
stock piles.
>> Director GCI, appreciate your time and
we know you're in the running to become
the new next UN Secretary General. So,
best of luck with that effort.
>> Thank you very much.
>> Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. The IAEA
director general Raphael Gy there on the
situation in Iran, the situation for
financial markets right now, looking
ahead to this a little bit later on this
afternoon. What an afternoon we've got
coming up for you at 2 p.m. Eastern
time. Tune in later on this afternoon
for surveillance. The Fed decides kicks
off at about 1:30. The decision at 2
p.m. We'll catch up with Bob Michael of
JP Morgan, Sebat Rajapper of Sockchen,
Matt Lazetti of Deutsche Bank, Jeff
Rosenberg of Black Rockck. Then we've
got to look forward to tons of earnings
after the closing bell,
>> which ultimately may render anything
that we hear in the Fed [music] meeting
not interesting. I'm sure J. Pal really
hopes so. Well, the Fed meeting will be
interesting as long as J. how gives us a
[music] little bit more of a hint of
what his future holds.
>> Pillow fight of the Federal Reserve.
>> Yeah.
>> Hey, Stuart Kaiser City.
>> I don't want that image of interest.
>> Than running around in PJs [laughter]
>> for the Federal Reserve.
>> Nope. No longer parted.
>> I'd rather have earned
>> hard pass. What was that about?
>> He worked hard on that. [laughter]
>> Long day ahead on Wall Street. We'll see
you later from New York City. Thank you
for choosing Bloomberg TV. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.